Type: Author: Moby Dick; or The Whale Whale Name: Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Herman Melville eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost almost restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it it the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this this or online at www.gutenberg.org www.gutenberg.org Herman Melville Melville Date: December 25, 2008 [EBook #2701] Last Updated: December 3, 3, 2017 English English set encoding: UTF-8 UTF-8 START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE *** *** MOBY-DICK; THE WHALE. WHALE. Herman Melville Melville 1. Loomings. Loomings. me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having precisely—having or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me me shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part part the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and and the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about about mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever whenever find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and and up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever whenever hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral moral to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and and knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to to to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. ball. a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I I take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they they knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, other, very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me. me. now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by by as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her her Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme extreme is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and and by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of of Look at the crowds of water-gazers there. there. the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears Corlears to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What What you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand stand upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some Some against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some some over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the the as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these these all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to to nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are Are green fields gone? What do they here? here? look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and and bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the the limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder yonder will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water water they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles of of Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets streets avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell Tell does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all all ships attract them thither? thither? more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take Take any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a a and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in in Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest deepest that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will will lead you to water, if water there be in all that region. region. you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this this if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical metaphysical Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for for ever. here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest, shadiest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley valley the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his his each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were were and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up up yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands woodlands a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in in hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and and this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this this head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd’s eye were were upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, June, for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among among is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a drop drop water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel travel thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon upon receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy buy a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian pedestrian to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a a healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea? sea? upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a a vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out out sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did did Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely Surely this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that that of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild mild he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that that image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image image the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all. all. when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin begin grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my my I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a a For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a a is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers passengers sea-sick—grow quarrelsome—don’t sleep of nights—do not enjoy enjoy much, as a general thing;—no, I never go as a passenger; passenger; though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a a or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction distinction such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all all respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind kind It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, myself, taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not. not. as for going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable glory glory that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, I I fancied broiling fowls;—though once broiled, judiciously judiciously and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who who speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled broiled than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old old upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the the of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids. pyramids. when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast, mast, down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head. mast-head. they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to to like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort of of is unpleasant enough. It touches one’s sense of honor, honor, if you come of an old established family in the land, the the Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if if previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been been it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in in of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a a to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and and Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off off time. time. of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom broom sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed, weighed, mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel archangel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and and obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain’t ain’t slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may may me about—however they may thump and punch me about, I have the the of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is is way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical or or point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is is round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades, shoulder-blades, be content. content. I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of of me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single single that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must must And there is all the difference in the world between paying and and paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable uncomfortable that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But _being _being will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man man money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly earnestly money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no no can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign consign to perdition! perdition! I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome wholesome and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world, world, winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if if never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the the on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from from sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not not In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many many things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. But But it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a a sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling whaling this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the the surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in in unaccountable way—he can better answer than any one else. And, And, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand grand of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in in a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive extensive I take it that this part of the bill must have run run like this: this: Contested Election for the Presidency of the United States._ States._ VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. “BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.” AFFGHANISTAN.” I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the the put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when when were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short short easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces—though I I tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the the I think I can see a little into the springs and motives motives being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced induced to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the the that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill freewill discriminating judgment. judgment. among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale whale Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my my Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island island the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all all attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, sounds, to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things things not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an an itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and and on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to to a horror, and could still be social with it—would they let let it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of of place one lodges in. in. reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the the flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild wild that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into into inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them them one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air. air. 2. The Carpet-Bag. Carpet-Bag. stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my my and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city city old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night night December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little little for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching reaching place would offer, till the following Monday. Monday. most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at at same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well well related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was was up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a a boisterous something about everything connected with that famous famous island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has has late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though though this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket Nantucket her great original—the Tyre of this Carthage;—the place where the the dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket Nantucket those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes canoes give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did did first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with with cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales, in in to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the the bowsprit? having a night, a day, and still another night following before me me New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a a of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a a dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold cold cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had had my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So, silver,—So, you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of of dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the the with the darkness towards the south—wherever in your wisdom you you conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to to the price, and don’t be too particular. particular. halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of “The “The Harpoons”—but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further Further from the bright red windows of the “Sword-Fish Inn,” there came came fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and and from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay lay inches thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,—rather weary for me, me, I struck my foot against the flinty projections, because from from remorseless service the soles of my boots were in a most most plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one one to watch the broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of of tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don’t don’t hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots are are the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the streets streets took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not not cheeriest inns. inns. dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand, hand, here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At At hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of of town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light light from a low, wide building, the door of which stood stood open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the the of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble stumble an ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying flying almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, city, But “The Crossed Harpoons,” and “The Sword-Fish?”—this, then then needs be the sign of “The Trap.” However, I picked myself up and and a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interior interior door. seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black black turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of of was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the the text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping weeping wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing backing Wretched entertainment at the sign of ‘The Trap!’ Trap!’ on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the the and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a a sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly faintly a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words words Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.” Coffin.” ominous in that particular connexion, thought thought But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this this here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and and place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated dilapidated wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here here the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a a sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very very for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee. coffee. was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsied palsied it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner, corner, that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than than it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, nevertheless, a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the the quietly toasting for bed. “In judging of that tempestuous wind wind Euroclydon,” says an old writer—of whose works I possess the the copy extant—“it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou thou out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the the or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where where frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only only True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my my black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are are and this body of mine is the house. What a pity they didn’t didn’t up the chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in a little lint lint and there. But it’s too late to make any improvements now. The The is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted carted a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there, chattering his teeth teeth the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking off his tatters with with shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags, and put a a into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the the Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silken silken had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frosty frosty how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them talk of their their summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the the of making my own summer with my own coals. coals. what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up up the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra Sumatra here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the the of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in in to keep out this frost? frost? that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the the of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be be to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a a in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a a society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans. orphans. no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there there plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted frosted and see what sort of a place this “Spouter” may be. be. 3. The Spouter-Inn. Spouter-Inn. that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide, wide, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of of bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large large so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the the crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent diligent and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of of neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its its Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first first almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New New hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint dint much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and and by throwing open the little window towards the back of the the you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however however might not be altogether unwarranted. unwarranted. what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, limber, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the the over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a a yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive drive nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite, indefinite, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to to till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what what marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, alas, idea would dart you through.—It’s the Black Sea in a midnight midnight the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.—It’s a a heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It’s the breaking-up of of icebound stream of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to to one portentous something in the picture’s midst. _That_ once found found and all the rest were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint faint to a gigantic fish? even the great leviathan himself? himself? fact, the artist’s design seemed this: a final theory of my own, own, based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with with I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner Cape-Horner a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its its dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, whale, to spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of of himself upon the three mast-heads. mast-heads. opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish heathenish of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with with teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots knots human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping sweeping like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed long-armed You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal cannibal savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, hacking, implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances lances harpoons all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With With once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Nathan kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that that like a corkscrew now—was flung in Javan seas, and run away away by a whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The The iron entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle needle in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last last found imbedded in the hump. hump. this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way—cut way—cut what in old times must have been a great central chimney with with all round—you enter the public room. A still duskier place place this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled wrinkled beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft’s craft’s especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored corner-anchored ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like shelf-like covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities rarities from this wide world’s remotest nooks. Projecting from the the angle of the room stands a dark-looking den—the bar—a rude rude at a right whale’s head. Be that how it may, there stands the the arched bone of the whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almost almost beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old old bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, destruction, another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), him), a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells sells sailors deliriums and death. death. are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true true without—within, the villanous green goggling glasses glasses tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians meridians pecked into the glass, surround these footpads’ goblets. Fill to to mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_ a penny more; more; so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp gulp for a shilling. shilling. entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about about table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_. I I the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with with room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bed bed “But avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint no no to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you are are a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.” thing.” told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should should do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that that he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the the was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander wander about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with with half of any decent man’s blanket. blanket. thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper? supper? be ready directly.” directly.” sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the the At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with with jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space space his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but but didn’t make much headway, I thought. thought. last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an an room. It was cold as Iceland—no fire at all—the landlord said said couldn’t afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a a sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold hold our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But the the was of the most substantial kind—not only meat and potatoes, but but good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in a a box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful direful manner. boy,” said the landlord, “you’ll have the nightmare to a dead dead sartainty.” I whispered, “that aint the harpooneer is it?” it?” no,” said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, “the “the is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he he eats nothing but steaks, and he likes ’em rare.” rare.” devil he does,” says I. “Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?” here?” be here afore long,” was the answer. answer. could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this “dark “dark harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so so out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into into before I did. did. over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not not else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the the as a looker on. on. a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord landlord “That’s the Grampus’s crew. I seed her reported in the offing offing morning; a three years’ voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now now have the latest news from the Feegees.” Feegees.” tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung flung and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their their watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, comforters, bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they they an eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from from boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, then, they made a straight wake for the whale’s mouth—the bar—when the the little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out out all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon upon Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he he was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never never of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, Labrador, on the weather side of an ice-island. ice-island. liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even even the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began began about most obstreperously. obstreperously. observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though though seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his his sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much much as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the the had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though (though a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I I here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six six in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I I seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and and making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the the shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem seem give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a a and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of of tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When When revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man man away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my my on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his his and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with with they raised a cry of “Bulkington! Bulkington! where’s where’s and darted out of the house in pursuit of him. him. was now about nine o’clock, and the room seeming almost almost quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself myself a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the the of the seamen. seamen. man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal deal not sleep with your own brother. I don’t know how it is, but but like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to to with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, town, that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely indefinitely Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should should two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep sleep in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they all all together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and and yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin. skin. more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the the of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a a his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of of tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over. over. it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home home going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at at could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming? coming? I’ve changed my mind about that harpooneer.—I shan’t sleep sleep him. I’ll try the bench here.” here.” as you please; I’m sorry I can’t spare ye a tablecloth for a a and it’s a plaguy rough board here”—feeling of the knots and and “But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I’ve got a carpenter’s plane plane in the bar—wait, I say, and I’ll make ye snug enough.” So saying saying procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting dusting bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning grinning an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the the came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was was spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—the quit—the was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing planing the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the the with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in in middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a a study. study. now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too too but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too too and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher higher the planed one—so there was no yoking them. I then placed the the bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall, wall, a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I I found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from from the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, all, as another current from the rickety door met the one from from window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in in immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the the night. devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steal steal march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be be by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon upon thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next next so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be be in the entry, all ready to knock me down! down! looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of of a sufferable night unless in some other person’s bed, I began began think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices prejudices this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I’ll wait awhile; he must be be in before long. I’ll have a good look at him then, and perhaps perhaps may become jolly good bedfellows after all—there’s no telling. telling. though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, threes, going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer. harpooneer. said I, “what sort of a chap is he—does he always keep such such hours?” It was now hard upon twelve o’clock. o’clock. landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be be tickled at something beyond my comprehension. “No,” he he “generally he’s an early bird—airley to bed and airley to to he’s the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out out peddling, you see, and I don’t see what on airth keeps him so late, late, may be, he can’t sell his head.” head.” sell his head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are are me?” getting into a towering rage. “Do you pretend to say, say, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed blessed night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around around town?” town?” precisely it,” said the landlord, “and I told him he couldn’t couldn’t it here, the market’s overstocked.” overstocked.” what?” shouted I. I. heads to be sure; ain’t there too many heads in the world?” world?” tell you what it is, landlord,” said I quite calmly, “you’d better better spinning that yarn to me—I’m not green.” green.” be not,” taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, “but I I guess you’ll be done _brown_ if that ere harpooneer hears you a a his head.” head.” break it for him,” said I, now flying into a passion again at at unaccountable farrago of the landlord’s. landlord’s. broke a’ready,” said he. he. said I—“_broke_, do you mean?” mean?” and that’s the very reason he can’t sell it, I guess.” guess.” said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a a stop whittling. You and I must understand one one and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a a you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half half to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I have have yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and and stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling feeling the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion, connexion, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest highest I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this this is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the the with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay unsay story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good good that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea of of with a madman; and you, sir, _you_ I mean, landlord, _you_, _you_, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render render liable to a criminal prosecution.” prosecution.” said the landlord, fetching a long breath, “that’s a purty long long for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be be this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrived arrived the south seas, where he bought up a lot of ’balmed New Zealand Zealand (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ’em but one, and and one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and it it not do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks is is to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as as was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for for the airth like a string of inions.” inions.” account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed showed the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me—but at the the time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a a night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal cannibal as selling the heads of dead idolators? idolators? upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man.” man.” pays reg’lar,” was the rejoinder. “But come, it’s getting dreadful dreadful you had better be turning flukes—it’s a nice bed; Sal and me me in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There’s plenty of room room two to kick about in that bed; it’s an almighty big bed that. Why, Why, we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the the of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and and Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm. arm. that, Sal said it wouldn’t do. Come along here, I’ll give ye a a in a jiffy;” and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards towards offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a a in the corner, he exclaimed “I vum it’s Sunday—you won’t see that that to-night; he’s come to anchor somewhere—come along then; then; come; _won’t_ ye come?” come?” considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was was into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, enough, a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four four to sleep abreast. abreast. said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest chest did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; “there, make make comfortable now, and good night to ye.” I turned round from from the bed, but he had disappeared. disappeared. back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of of most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then then round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, table, see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, shelf, four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a a Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a a lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a a seaman’s bag, containing the harpooneer’s wardrobe, no doubt in in of a land trunk. Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone bone hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon harpoon at the head of the bed. bed. what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the the and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to to at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it it nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little little tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an an moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as as see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible possible any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the the of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to to it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy shaggy thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious mysterious had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit bit glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my my I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink kink the neck. neck. sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this this harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on on bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in in middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought a a more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now, now, undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about about harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so very very I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, boots, then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself myself the care of heaven. heaven. that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, crockery, is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not not for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had had nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard heard heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into into room from under the door. door. save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal infernal But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word word spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New New head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without without towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on on floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted knotted of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was was eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time time employed in unlacing the bag’s mouth. This accomplished, however, however, turned round—when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was was a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with with blackish looking squares. Yes, it’s just as I thought, he’s a a bedfellow; he’s been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here here is, just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his his so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be be at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were were of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this; this; soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story story a white man—a whaleman too—who, falling among the cannibals, had had tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course course his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And And is it, thought I, after all! It’s only his outside; a man can be be in any sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly unearthly that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely completely of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be be but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot hot tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one. However, I had had been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these these effects upon the skin. Now, while all these ideas were were through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at at But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced commenced in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a a wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest in in middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head—a ghastly ghastly enough—and crammed it down into the bag. He now took off his his new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise. surprise. was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a a scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now now for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the stranger stranger between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker quicker ever I bolted a dinner. dinner. as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but but was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this this purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension. comprehension. is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and and about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of of as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at at dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game game just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer answer what seemed inexplicable in him. him. he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed showed chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were were with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all all the same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years’ Years’ and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still Still his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs frogs running up the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that that must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman whaleman the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to to of it. A peddler of heads too—perhaps the heads of his own own He might take a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk! tomahawk! there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about about that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me me he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, wrapall, dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in in pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image image a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ old old baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought thought this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar similar But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened glistened good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing nothing a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage savage up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, fire-board, up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the the The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, sooty, that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine shrine chapel for his Congo idol. idol. now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but but at ease meantime—to see what was next to follow. First he takes takes a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places places carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on on and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into into sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the the and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed seemed be scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the the then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite polite of it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to to such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All these these antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from from devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing singing pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in in most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the the up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket pocket carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock. woodcock. these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing seeing now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business business and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time, time, or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which which had so long been bound. bound. the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one. one. up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for for instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the the he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment moment light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between between teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it it and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me. me. out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him him the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might might to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his his responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my my meaning. debel you?”—he at last said—“you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e.” kill-e.” so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the the dark. for God’s sake, Peter Coffin!” shouted I. “Landlord! Watch! Watch! Angels! save me!” me!” tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!” again growled the the while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the the tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire. fire. thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light light hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him. him. be afraid now,” said he, grinning again, “Queequeg here wouldn’t wouldn’t a hair of your head.” head.” your grinning,” shouted I, “and why didn’t you tell me that that that harpooneer was a cannibal?” cannibal?” thought ye know’d it;—didn’t I tell ye, he was a peddlin’ heads heads town?—but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look look sabbee me, I sabbee—you this man sleepe you—you sabbee?” sabbee?” sabbee plenty”—grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and and up in bed. bed. gettee in,” he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and and the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a a but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a a For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely comely cannibal. What’s all this fuss I have been making about, about, I to myself—the man’s a human being just as I am: he has just just much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep sleep a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian. Christian. said I, “tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or or you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will will in with him. But I don’t fancy having a man smoking in bed with with It’s dangerous. Besides, I ain’t insured.” insured.” being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely politely me to get into bed—rolling over to one side as much as to to won’t touch a leg of ye.” ye.” night, landlord,” said I, “you may go.” go.” turned in, and never slept better in my life. life. 4. The Counterpane. Counterpane. waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg’s arm thrown thrown me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost almost I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of of little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his his all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure, no no parts of which were of one precise shade—owing I suppose to his his his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt shirt irregularly rolled up at various times—this same arm of his, I I looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork patchwork Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I I hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues hues and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I I tell that Queequeg was hugging me. me. sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a a I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; me; it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The The was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other—I other—I it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little little do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other, other, all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—my supperless,—my dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to to though it was only two o’clock in the afternoon of the 21st June, June, longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But But was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the the floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time, time, with a bitter sigh got between the sheets. sheets. lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse elapse I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the small small my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the sun sun in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the the and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse worse worse—at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my my feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at at feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good good for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to to abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and and conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For For hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than than have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. misfortunes. last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and and waking from it—half steeped in dreams—I opened my eyes, and the the sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt felt shock running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and and was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine. mine. arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, unimaginable, form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely closely by my bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, there, with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet yet thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid horrid would be broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided glided from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it it and for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in in attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I I puzzle myself with it. it. take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the the hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to to which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg’s pagan arm arm round me. But at length all the past night’s events soberly soberly one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to to comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm—unlock his his clasp—yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly, tightly, though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse rouse his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over, my my feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a a scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk tomahawk by the savage’s side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A A pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the the day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! “Queequeg!—in the name of of Queequeg, wake!” At length, by dint of much wriggling, and and and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his his a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in in a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself himself over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in in stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if if did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim dim of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over over Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings misgivings and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at at his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, bedfellow, he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon upon floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that, that, it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress dress leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg, Queequeg, the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the the is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you you it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this this compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much much and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness; rudeness; at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for for time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless, Nevertheless, man like Queequeg you don’t see every day, he and his ways were well well unusual regarding. regarding. commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall tall by the by, and then—still minus his trowsers—he hunted up his his What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his his movement was to crush himself—boots in hand, and hat on—under the the when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he he hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I I heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his his But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition transition caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized civilized show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His His was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not not a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled troubled with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage, savage, never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At At he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over over eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not not much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide cowhide not made to order either—rather pinched and tormented him him the first go off of a bitter cold morning. morning. now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the the being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view view the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that that made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; on; begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and and to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He He and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the the any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my my contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his his arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a a of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water water commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kept kept razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed bed slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it it little on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the the begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks. cheeks. I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers’s best cutlery with a a Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came came know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how how sharp the long straight edges are always kept. kept. rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of of room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his his like a marshal’s baton. baton. 5. Breakfast. Breakfast. quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the the landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him, him, he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my my bedfellow. a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a a thing; the more’s the pity. So, if any one man, in his own proper proper afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be be but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in in way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about about be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for. for. bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the the previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were were all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, mates, sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and and and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky bosky an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning morning gowns. could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This This fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and and seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days days from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades shades you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the the of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly slightly withal; _he_ doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who who show a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, tints, like the Andes’ western slope, to show forth in one array, array, climates, zone by zone. zone. ho!” now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we we to breakfast. breakfast. say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease ease manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: though: the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch Scotch of all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But But the mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as as did, or the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in in negro heart of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo’s Mungo’s kind of travel, I say, may not be the very best mode mode attaining a high social polish. Still, for the most part, that sort sort thing is to be had anywhere. anywhere. reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that that we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some some stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man man a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked looked Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the the bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas—entire seas—entire to them—and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, here here sat at a social breakfast table—all of the same calling, all of of tastes—looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they they never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Green A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior warrior whalemen! as for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat there among them—at the head of of table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I I say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have have justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, him, using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, it, the imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks beefsteaks him. But _that_ was certainly very coolly done by him, and and one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coolly coolly to do it genteelly. genteelly. will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewed eschewed and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to to done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew withdrew the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was was there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat hat when I sallied out for a stroll. stroll. 6. The Street. Street. I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish outlandish individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a a town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first first stroll through the streets of New Bedford. Bedford. thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will will offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign foreign Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners mariners sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not not to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live live have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water Water and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only only but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street street savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy unholy It makes a stranger stare. stare. besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, Pannangians, Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft whaling-craft unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still still curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town town of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain gain glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames; frames; who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and and the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence whence came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old. old. there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat hat swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife. sheath-knife. comes another with a sou’-wester and a bombazine cloak. cloak. town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one—I mean a a bumpkin dandy—a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his his acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a a dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished distinguished and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the the things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his his he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his his trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those those in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, straps, and all, down the throat of the tempest. tempest. think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals, cannibals, bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a a place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would would day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of of As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten frighten they look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to to in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not not Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run run milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. eggs. in spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more more houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New New Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of of country? country? and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty lofty and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave brave and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Indian One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the the of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that? that? New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their their and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece. a-piece. must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, say, have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly recklessly their lengths in spermaceti candles. candles. summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—long maples—long of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful beautiful bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by passer-by tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is is which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright bright of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at at final day. day. the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But But only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks cheeks perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that that of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young young breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off off as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of of Puritanic sands. sands. 7. The Chapel. Chapel. this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few are are moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who who to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not. not. from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this this errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving driving and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called called I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I found found small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives and and A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks shrieks the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart apart the other, as if each silent grief were insular and and The chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these these islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble marble with black borders, masoned into the wall on either side the the Three of them ran something like the following, but I do not not to quote:— quote:— TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, was was overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, _November_ _November_ 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER. SISTER. TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN, COLEMAN, CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats’ boats’ OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On the the Ground in the PACIFIC, _December_ 31_st_, 1839. THIS MARBLE MARBLE here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES. SHIPMATES. TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bows bows his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, _August_ _August_ 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW. WIDOW. off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated seated near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see see near me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a a gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage savage the only person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because because was the only one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading reading frigid inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of of seamen whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, congregation, knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, fishery, so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not not trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here here me were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of of bleak tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed bleed afresh. ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing standing flowers can say—here, _here_ lies my beloved; ye know not the the that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in in black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in in immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden unbidden in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse refuse to the beings who have placelessly perished without a a As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as as here. what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; included; it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no no though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is is to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix prefix significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if if but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the the Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what what unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies lies Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we we refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are are in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all all dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify terrify whole city. All these things are not without their meanings. meanings. Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these these doubts she gathers her most vital hope. hope. needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a a voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky murky of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who who gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But But I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine fine for promotion, it seems—aye, a stove boat will make me an an by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling—a whaling—a quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what what Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death. Death. that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true true Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too too like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking thinking thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees lees my better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is is me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat boat stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot. cannot. 8. The Pulpit. Pulpit. had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable venerable entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon upon him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation, congregation, attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it it the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he he a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in in youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the the At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy hardy of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging merging a second flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his his there shone certain mild gleams of a newly developing developing spring verdure peeping forth even beneath February’s snow. No No having previously heard his history, could for the first time time Father Mapple without the utmost interest, because there were were engrafted clerical peculiarities about him, imputable to that that maritime life he had led. When he entered I observed that that carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his carriage, for for tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great pilot pilot jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of of water it had absorbed. However, hat and coat and overshoes were one one one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; corner; arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit. pulpit. most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a a stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the the seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the the it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and and the pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side side like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife wife a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of of worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely nicely and stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, contrivance, what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad bad Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both both grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple Mapple a look upwards, and then with a truly sailor-like but still still dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if if the main-top of his vessel. vessel. perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case case swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of of so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of of pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, ship, joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not not to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn turn and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder ladder by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him him in his little Quebec. Quebec. pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this. this. Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and and that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any any tricks of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober sober for this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen. unseen. it be, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies signifies spiritual withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties ties connexions? Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the the to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a a stronghold—a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial perennial of water within the walls. walls. the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place, place, from the chaplain’s former sea-farings. Between the marble marble on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back back adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating beating a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy snowy But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there there a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel’s angel’s and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the the tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into into Victory’s plank where Nelson fell. “Ah, noble ship,” the angel angel to say, “beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy hardy for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling rolling azure is at hand.” hand.” was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that that achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in the the of a ship’s bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a a piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship’s fiddle-headed fiddle-headed beak. could be more full of meaning?—for the pulpit is ever this earth’s earth’s part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the the From thence it is the storm of God’s quick wrath is first first and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is is God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds. winds. the world’s a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; complete; the pulpit is its prow. prow. 9. The Sermon. Sermon. Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered ordered scattered people to condense. “Starboard gangway, there! side away away larboard—larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!” midships!” was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a a slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, and and eye on the preacher. preacher. paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit’s bows, folded his his brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and and a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying praying the bottom of the sea. sea. ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of a a in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones he he reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards towards concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy— joy— ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, gloom, all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down down doom. doom. saw the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; there; none but they that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging to to despair. black distress, I called my God, When I could scarce believe him him He bowed his ear to my complaints— No more the whale did me me confine. speed he flew to my relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; borne; yet bright, as lightning shone The face of my Deliverer God. God. song for ever shall record That terrible, that joyful hour; I I the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the power.” power.” all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the the of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned turned the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon upon proper page, said: “Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the the chapter of Jonah—‘And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up up Jonah.’” this book, containing only four chapters—four yarns—is one one the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what what of the soul does Jonah’s deep sealine sound! what a pregnant pregnant to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in in fish’s belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the the surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the the sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But _what_ _what_ this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a a lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to to as a pilot of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us us because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly suddenly fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally finally deliverance and joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the the of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the the of God—never mind now what that command was, or how how he found a hard command. But all the things that God God have us do are hard for us to do—remember that—and hence, he he commands us than endeavors to persuade. And if we obey God, we we disobey ourselves; and it is in this disobeying ourselves, wherein wherein hardness of obeying God consists. consists. this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at at by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men men carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the the of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks seeks ship that’s bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto hitherto meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no no city than the modern Cadiz. That’s the opinion of learned men. men. where is Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from from as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when when Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern modern shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, Mediterranean, Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the the from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye not not shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God? God? man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with with hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the the like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So So self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen policemen those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had had arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! no no not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him him the wharf with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he he the Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as as steps on board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for for moment desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger’s stranger’s eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and and in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the the assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but but serious way, one whispers to the other—“Jack, he’s robbed a a or, “Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;” or, “Harry lad, I I he’s the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, belike, of the missing murderers from Sodom.” Another runs to read the bill bill stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is is offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a a and containing a description of his person. He reads, and and from Jonah to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now now round Jonah, prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah Jonah and summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so so the more a coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that that is strong suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the the find him not to be the man that is advertised, they let him him and he descends into the cabin. cabin. there?’ cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making making his papers for the Customs—‘Who’s there?’ Oh! how that harmless harmless mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again. again. he rallies. ‘I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon soon ye, sir?’ Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah, Jonah, the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that that voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. ‘We sail with the the coming tide,’ at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing eyeing ‘No sooner, sir?’—‘Soon enough for any honest man that goes a a Ha! Jonah, that’s another stab. But he swiftly calls away away Captain from that scent. ‘I’ll sail with ye,’—he says,—‘the passage passage how much is that?—I’ll pay now.’ For it is particularly written, written, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history, history, he paid the fare thereof’ ere the craft did sail. And taken with with context, this is full of meaning. meaning. Jonah’s Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects detects in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In In world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and and a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all all So Jonah’s Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah’s Jonah’s ere he judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; sum; it’s assented to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; fugitive; at the same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with with Yet when Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions suspicions molest the Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit. counterfeit. a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his his ‘Point out my state-room, Sir,’ says Jonah now, ‘I’m ‘I’m I need sleep.’ ‘Thou lookest like it,’ says the Captain, Captain, thy room.’ Jonah enters, and would lock the door, but the lock lock no key. Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain Captain lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of of cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressed dressed dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the the state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air is is and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, too, the ship’s water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment presentiment that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of of bowels’ wards. wards. at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly slightly in Jonah’s room; and the ship, heeling over towards the the with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and and though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity obliquity reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight straight it but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it it The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his his eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful successful finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that that in the lamp more and more appals him. The floor, the the and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in in he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it burns; but the chambers of my my are all in crookedness!’ crookedness!’ one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still still but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the the race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; him; one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy giddy praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at at amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as as the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and and naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth, berth, prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep. sleep. now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and and the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, careening, to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded recorded the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not not the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to to But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when when bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind is is and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with with feet right over Jonah’s head; in all this raging tumult, tumult, sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea, sea, not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far far of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving cleaving seas after him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides sides the ship—a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast fast But the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead dead ‘What meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!’ Startled from his lethargy lethargy that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the the grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he he sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave Wave wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs runs fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet yet And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the the gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing rearing pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the the deep. deep. upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his his attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The The mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him, him, at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to to Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this this tempest was upon them. The lot is Jonah’s; that discovered, then then furiously they mob him with their questions. ‘What is thine thine Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, now, shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask ask who he is, and where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer answer those questions, but likewise another answer to a question not put put them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hard of God that is upon him. him. am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heaven Heaven hath made the sea and the dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well well thou fear the Lord God _then!_ Straightway, he now goes on to to a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more more but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating supplicating for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his his wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him him into the sea, for he knew that for _his_ sake this great tempest tempest upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means means save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder; louder; with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not not lay hold of Jonah. Jonah. now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea; sea; instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea sea still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth water water He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless masterless that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into into yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory ivory like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed prayed the Lord out of the fish’s belly. But observe his prayer, and and a weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and and for direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is is He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with with that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards towards holy temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; repentance; clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing pleasing God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance deliverance him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah Jonah you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a a for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it it Jonah.” Jonah.” he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking, shrieking, storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, who, describing Jonah’s sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself. himself. deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed seemed warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from from his swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his his hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them. them. now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the the of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with with eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself. himself. again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly, lowly, an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these these words: God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press press me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that that teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to to for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come come from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, sit, listen as you listen, while some one of you reads _me_ that other other more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to _me_, as a pilot of the the God. How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true true and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the the of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should should fled from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God God taking ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never never As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed swallowed down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him him ‘into the midst of the seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked him him thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,’ head,’ all the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond beyond reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell’—when the whale whale upon the ocean’s utmost bones, even then, God heard the the repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the the and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale whale breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the the of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;’ land;’ the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and and ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring murmuring the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that, that, To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it! it! shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of of living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from from duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God God brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather than than appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe Woe him who, in this world, courts not dishonor! Woe to him who would would be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him him as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is is a castaway!” castaway!” dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his his to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with with heavenly enthusiasm,—“But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of of woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, delight, the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than than kelson is low? Delight is to him—a far, far upward, and inward inward against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever ever forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong strong yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has has down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the the and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out out under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,—top-gallant Delight,—top-gallant is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his his and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the the of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake shake this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness deliciousness be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final final Father!—chiefly known to me by Thy rod—mortal or immortal, immortal, I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world’s, world’s, mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is is that he should live out the lifetime of his God?” God?” said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with with hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed, departed, he was left alone in the place. place. 10. A Bosom Friend. Friend. to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there there alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some some He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the the hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that that negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a a gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to to in his heathenish way. way. being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going going the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap lap counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth fiftieth I fancied—stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and and utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He He then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number number each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was was by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his his at the multitude of pages was excited. excited. much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and and marred about the face—at least to my taste—his countenance countenance had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You You hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I I the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, eyes, black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a a devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty lofty about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not not maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never never had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved, shaved, forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked looked expansive than it otherwise would, this I will not venture to to but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent excellent It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’s Washington’s as seen in the popular busts of him. It had the same long long graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were were very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on on Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed. developed. I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be be out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my my never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but but wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous marvellous Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night night and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found found over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference indifference his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do do know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; their their self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had had also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, little, the other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; whatever; to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. acquaintances. this struck me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there there something almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand thousand from home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is—which was the only only he could get there—thrown among people as strange to him as though though were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; ease; the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; companionship; equal to himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; philosophy; no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as that. But, But, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of of living or so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man man himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the the old woman, he must have “broken his digester.” digester.” I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that that stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then then glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering gathering the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain; the the booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of of feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart heart maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing soothing had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a a in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland bland Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to to myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that that have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus thus me. I’ll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness kindness proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some some signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At At he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon my my to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask me me we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I I he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented. complimented. then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to to the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures pictures were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we we to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to to seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, and, his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And And we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it it passing between us. us. there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan’s Pagan’s this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and and us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and and as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his his against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that that we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that we we bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a a this sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too too a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage savage old rules would not apply. apply. supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room room He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his his tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out some some dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and and dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of them them me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he he me by pouring them into my trowsers’ pockets. I let them stay. stay. then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed removed paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed seemed for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I I a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or or otherwise. was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible infallible Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator in in his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do you you now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and and and all included—can possibly be jealous of an an bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?—to do do will of God—_that_ is worship. And what is the will of God?—to do do my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me—_that_ is is will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish wish this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular particular form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with him him his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped helped up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with with salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that that we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences consciences all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat. chat. it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential confidential between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the the bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often often and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our our honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair. pair. 11. Nightgown. Nightgown. had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and and now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs legs mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and free free easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what what nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like like up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future. future. we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position position to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves ourselves up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the the with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two two bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt felt nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; doors; out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the the The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some some part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world world is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If If flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been been a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But But like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown crown your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general general you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For For reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire, fire, is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height height this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket blanket you and your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there there lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal. crystal. had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at at I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether whether day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always always my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness of of in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright aright his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper proper of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey clayey Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and and darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the the twelve-o’clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable disagreeable Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that that it were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide wide and besides he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs puffs his Tomahawk. Be it said, that though I had felt such a strong strong to his smoking in the bed the night before, yet see how how our stiff prejudices grow when love once comes to bend them. them. now I liked nothing better than to have Queequeg smoking by me, me, in bed, because he seemed to be full of such serene household joy joy I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord’s policy of of I was only alive to the condensed confidential confidential of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend. friend. our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the the from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue blue tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp. lamp. it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to to distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island; island; eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He He complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of of words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar familiar his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story story as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give. give. 12. Biographical. Biographical. was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and and It is not down in any map; true places never are. are. a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in a a clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green green even then, in Queequeg’s ambitious soul, lurked a strong strong to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or or His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and and the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of of warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royal veins—royal though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he he in his untutored youth. youth. Sag Harbor ship visited his father’s bay, and Queequeg sought a a to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of of spurned his suit; and not all the King his father’s influence influence prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled paddled to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when when quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a a tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into into water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with with prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and and the ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her her with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe; canoe; up the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the the grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though though in pieces. pieces. vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a a over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and and budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his his desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and and him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage—this savage—this Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain’s cabin. They put him down down the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter Peter to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained disdained seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of of his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told me—he me—he actuated by a profound desire to learn among the Christians, the the whereby to make his people still happier than they were; and more more that, still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of of soon convinced him that even Christians could be both both and wicked; infinitely more so, than all his father’s father’s Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the the did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they they their wages in _that_ place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for for Thought he, it’s a wicked world in all meridians; I’ll die a a pagan. thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, Christians, their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer queer about him, though now some time from home. home. hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and having having coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he he very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not not and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, Christians, unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty thirty Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,—as return,—as as he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he he to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They They made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a a now. now. asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future future He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon Upon I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my my to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port port an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to to me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the the watch, the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my my hap; with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of of worlds. To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection affection now felt for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, such, not fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was was ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted acquainted the sea, as known to merchant seamen. seamen. story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg Queequeg me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the the we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon soon sleeping. sleeping. 13. Wheelbarrow. Wheelbarrow. morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber, barber, a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, my my money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed seemed tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between between and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull stories stories him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person person I now companied with. with. borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own own carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went went to “the Moss,” the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the the As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg so so they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their their at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we we them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg Queequeg and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I I him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and and all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, in in he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet yet had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of of stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate intimate the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers and and who go into the farmers’ meadows armed with their own own in no wise obliged to furnish them—even so, Queequeg, Queequeg, his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon. harpoon. the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about about first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The The of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his his chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the the in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in in to manage the barrow—Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it it and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. “Why,” “Why,” I, “Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would would Didn’t the people laugh?” laugh?” this, he told me another story. The people of his island of of it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water water young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and and punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided braided where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once once at Rokovoko, and its commander—from all accounts, a very very punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain—this captain—this was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg’s sister, a a young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding wedding were assembled at the bride’s bamboo cottage, this Captain Captain in, and being assigned the post of honor, placed himself over over the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the the Queequeg’s father. Grace being said,—for those people have their their as well as we—though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such such look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying copying ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts—Grace, I I being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial immemorial of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and and fingers into the bowl before the blessed beverage beverage Seeing himself placed next the Priest, and noting the the and thinking himself—being Captain of a ship—as having plain plain over a mere island King, especially in the King’s own own Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the the it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. “Now,” said said “what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?” laugh?” last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the the Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one one New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees trees glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of of on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the the whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while while others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises noises fires and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises cruises on the start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only only a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, on, ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness intolerableness all earthly effort. effort. the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little little tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his his How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike turnpike common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish slavish and hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea sea will permit no records. records. the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me. me. dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed pointed On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to to blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sultan. leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a a the two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes. tornadoes. full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging plunging that for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of of passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow fellow should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything anything dignified than a whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies boobies bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come come the heart and centre of all verdure. Queequeg caught one of these these saplings mimicking him behind his back. I thought the bumpkin’s bumpkin’s of doom was come. Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught caught in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength, strength, him high up bodily into the air; then slightly tapping his stern stern mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his feet, feet, Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk pipe pipe passed it to me for a puff. puff. Capting!” yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer; officer; Capting, here’s the devil.” devil.” _you_ sir,” cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking stalking to Queequeg, “what in thunder do you mean by that? Don’t you know know might have killed that chap?” chap?” him say?” said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me. me. say,” said I, “that you came near kill-e that man there,” pointing pointing the still shivering greenhorn. greenhorn. cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly unearthly of disdain, “ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e kill-e small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!” whale!” you,” roared the Captain, “I’ll kill-e _you_, you cannibal, if if try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.” eye.” it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to to his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted parted weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to to completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor poor whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all all were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it, it, madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost in in ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of of into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable capable being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing eyeing boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the the of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and and under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured secured end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, lasso, it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next next the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was was into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern stern Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long long arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming swimming a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by by revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I I at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. saved. greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the the Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seeming seeming see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes minutes and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the other other a lifeless form. The boat soon picked them up. The poor poor was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the the begged his pardon. From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a a yea, till poor Queequeg took his last long dive. dive. there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he he all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He He asked for water—fresh water—something to wipe the brine off; that that he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the the and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying to to a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We We must help these Christians.” Christians.” 14. Nantucket. Nantucket. more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a a run, we safely arrived in Nantucket. Nantucket. Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of of world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely lonely the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it—a mere hillock, and elbow of of all beach, without a background. There is more sand there than than would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some Some wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they they grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have have send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that that of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true true in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses, houses, get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an an three blades in a day’s walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand quicksand something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up, up, about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island island by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will will be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these these only show that Nantucket is no Illinois. Illinois. now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was was by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle eagle down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant infant in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child child out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the the direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passage passage discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory ivory poor little Indian’s skeleton. skeleton. wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should should to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs quohogs the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more more they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last, last, a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world; world; an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in at at Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared declared war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the the most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea salt-sea clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that that very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and and assaults! assaults! thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from from ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like like many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, Pacific, Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America America Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English English all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; sun; thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer’s. For the sea sea his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a a of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; bridges; ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though though the sea as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, ships, fragments of the land like themselves, without seeking to draw draw living from the bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone alone and riots on the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to to in ships; to and fro ploughing it as his own special plantation. plantation. is his home; _there_ lies his business, which a Noah’s flood flood not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the millions in China. China. lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he hides among among waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years years knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells smells another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. Earthsman. the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to to between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight sight land, furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his his pillow rush herds of walruses and whales. whales. 15. Chowder. Chowder. was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly to to and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no no that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord landlord the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the the Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept kept in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin Cousin as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he he hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck pot-luck the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a a warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to to larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a a three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first first we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very very puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg Queequeg that the yellow warehouse—our first point of departure—must be be on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say say was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little in in dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to to the way, we at last came to something which there was no no mistaking. enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses’ ears, ears, from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an an doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other other so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows. gallows. I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I I not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort sort crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, yes, of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinks thinks A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; port; staring at me in the whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows! gallows! a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out out hints touching Tophet? Tophet? was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman woman yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn, inn, a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured injured and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen woollen shirt. along with ye,” said she to the man, “or I’ll be combing ye!” ye!” on, Queequeg,” said I, “all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.” Hussey.” so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving leaving Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon Upon known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, Hussey, further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little little and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently recently repast, turned round to us and said—“Clam or Cod?” Cod?” that about Cods, ma’am?” said I, with much politeness. politeness. or Cod?” she repeated. repeated. clam for supper? a cold clam; is _that_ what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?” Hussey?” I, “but that’s a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter winter ain’t it, Mrs. Hussey?” Hussey?” being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple purple who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing nothing the word “clam,” Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading leading the kitchen, and bawling out “clam for two,” disappeared. disappeared. said I, “do you think that we can make out a supper for us us on one clam?” clam?” a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the the cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder chowder in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends! friends! to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than than nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up up little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully plentifully with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the the voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing fishing before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we we it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and and me of Mrs. Hussey’s clam and cod announcement, I thought I I try a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered uttered word “cod” with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few few the savoury steam came forth again, but with a different different and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us. us. resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I I myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head? What’s What’s stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? “But look, look, ain’t that a live eel in your bowl? Where’s your harpoon?” harpoon?” of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its its for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for for and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you you to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area area the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a a necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account account bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the the too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning morning to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen’s fishermen’s I saw Hosea’s brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and and along the sand with each foot in a cod’s decapitated head, head, very slip-shod, I assure ye. ye. concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey Hussey the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to to me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded demanded harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. “Why not?” said I; I; true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?” “Because “Because dangerous,” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from that that v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with with three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back, back, his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to to sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg” Queequeg” she had learned his name), “I will just take this here iron, and and it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow to-morrow breakfast, men?” men?” says I; “and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way of of variety.” 16. The Ship. Ship. bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and no no concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been been consulting Yojo—the name of his black little god—and Yojo Yojo told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it it that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in in and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, say, earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest rest with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order order do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, myself, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though though had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship ship for the present irrespective of Queequeg. Queequeg. have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great great in the excellence of Yojo’s judgment and surprising forecast forecast things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather rather sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in in cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs. designs. this plan of Queequeg’s, or rather Yojo’s, touching the selection selection our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little little upon Queequeg’s sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to to us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances remonstrances no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and and prepared to set about this business with a determined determined sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that that little affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up up Yojo in our little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some sort of of or Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with with and Yojo that day; _how_ it was I never could find out, for, for, I applied myself to it several times, I never could master his his and XXXIX Articles—leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on his his pipe, and Yojo warming himself at his sacrificial fire of of I sallied out among the shipping. After much prolonged prolonged and many random inquiries, I learnt that there were three three up for three-years’ voyages—The Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the the _Devil-Dam_, I do not know the origin of; _Tit-bit_ is obvious; obvious; you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated celebrated of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct as the ancient Medes. I I and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her, hopped over to the the and finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for for moment, and then decided that this was the very ship for us. us. may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I I luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box butter-box and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a a old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old old rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed claw-footed about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and and of all four oceans, her old hull’s complexion was darkened like a a grenadier’s, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her Her bows looked bearded. Her masts—cut somewhere on the coast of of where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her masts masts stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her Her decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped pilgrim-worshipped in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these these old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining pertaining the wild business that for more than half a century she had had Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he he another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one one the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the term term his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and and it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device, device, by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler or or She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his his heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of of A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased chased of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were were like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the the whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old hempen thews thews tendons to. Those thews ran not through base blocks of land wood, wood, deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile turnstile at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that tiller tiller in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her her foe. The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, tempest, like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching clutching jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy! All noble things things touched with that. that. when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having having in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at at I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of of or rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It It only a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical conical some ten feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber limber bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the the Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of of slabs laced together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at at apex united in a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved waved and fro like the top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem’s head. A A opening faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the the commanded a complete view forward. forward. half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by by aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the the work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of of He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all all with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a a interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was was constructed. was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of of elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen, seamen, heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style; style; there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest minutest interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his his sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to to this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed pursed Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl. scowl. this the Captain of the Pequod?” said I, advancing to the door of of tent. tent. it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of of he demanded. demanded. was thinking of shipping.” shipping.” wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer—ever been in a a boat?” boat?” Sir, I never have.” have.” know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say—eh? say—eh? Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I’ve been been voyages in the merchant service, and I think that—” that—” service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that that take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of of marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose suppose ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant marchant But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?—it eh?—it a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast hast not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of of the officers when thou gettest to sea?” sea?” protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of of half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated insulated Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather rather of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the the Vineyard. what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of of ye.” ye.” sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world.” world.” to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?” Ahab?” is Captain Ahab, sir?” sir?” aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.” ship.” am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.” himself.” art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to, to, man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted fitted for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We We part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest wantest know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way way finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap Clap on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one one leg.” do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?” whale?” by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed chewed crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a a ah!” ah!” was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at at hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I I “What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know know was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed indeed might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident.” accident.” ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d’ye see; thou thou not talk shark a bit. _Sure_, ye’ve been to sea before now; sure sure that?” that?” said I, “I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in in merchant—” merchant—” down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant marchant aggravate me—I won’t have it. But let us understand each each I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel feel for it?” it?” do, sir.” sir.” good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live live throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!” quick!” am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to to got rid of, that is; which I don’t take to be the fact.” fact.” again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find find by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to to the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just just forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back back me and tell me what ye see there.” there.” a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not not exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. But But all his crow’s feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started started on the errand. errand. forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the the swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely obliquely towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but but monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I I see. see. what’s the report?” said Peleg when I came back; “what did ye ye see?” much,” I replied—“nothing but water; considerable horizon though, though, there’s a squall coming up, I think.” think.” what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go go Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see the world where where stand?” stand?” was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the the was as good a ship as any—I thought the best—and all this I now now to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his his to ship me. me. thou mayest as well sign the papers right off,” he added—“come added—“come with ye.” And so saying, he led the way below deck into the the cabin. on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and and figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with with Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other other as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd crowd old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; wards; owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a a or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in in vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state state bringing in good interest. interest. Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a a the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to to day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the the of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by by altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same same are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They They fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance. vengeance. that there are instances among them of men, who, named with with names—a singularly common fashion on the island—and in in naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the the idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless boundless of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these these peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not not a Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when when things unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a a brain and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and and of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and and constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think think and independently; receiving all nature’s sweet or or impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding confiding and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidental accidental to learn a bold and nervous lofty language—that man makes makes in a whole nation’s census—a mighty pageant creature, formed for for tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically dramatically if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems seems half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For For men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be Be of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease. disease. as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another; another; still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from from phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances. circumstances. Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman. whaleman. unlike Captain Peleg—who cared not a rush for what are called called things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the the of all trifles—Captain Bildad had not only been originally originally according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but but his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely lovely creatures, round the Horn—all that had not moved this native native Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his his Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common common about worthy Captain Bildad. Though refusing, from from scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself himself illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn sworn to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled spilled upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening evening his days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the the I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much, much, very probably he had long since come to the sage and sensible sensible that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical world world another. This world pays dividends. Rising from a little little in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a a shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, boat-header, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted hinted had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from from life at the goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remaining remaining to the quiet receiving of his well-earned income. income. Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an an old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard hard They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a a story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, crew, arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, hospital, exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, Quaker, was certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used used swear, though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got an an quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. When When was a chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking looking you, made you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch clutch hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at at or other, never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished perished him. His own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian utilitarian On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no no beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like like worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat. hat. then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I I Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks decks small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so, so, never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was was beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was was up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in in from a ponderous volume. volume. cried Captain Peleg, “at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been been those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my my knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?” Bildad?” if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate, shipmate, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, up, seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg. Peleg. says he’s our man, Bildad,” said Peleg, “he wants to ship.” ship.” thee?” said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me. me. _dost_,” said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker. Quaker. do ye think of him, Bildad?” said Peleg. Peleg. do,” said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at at book in a mumbling tone quite audible. audible. thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg, Peleg, friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said said only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest, chest, drawing forth the ship’s articles, placed pen and ink before him, him, seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time time settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for for voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid paid wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares shares the profits called _lays_, and that these lays were proportioned to to degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the the company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my my lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the the could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt doubt from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th 275th is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, voyage, that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was was they call a rather _long lay_, yet it was better than nothing; and and we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I I wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board, board, which I would not have to pay one stiver. stiver. might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely princely so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those those never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the the is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this this sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the the lay would be about the fair thing, but would not have been been had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a a make. make. one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about about a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard heard of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad; Bildad; that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore therefore other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the the management of the ship’s affairs to these two. And I did not know know what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about about hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, Pequod, at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his his fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his his old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he he such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded heeded but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, “_Lay_ not up for for treasures upon earth, where moth—” moth—” Captain Bildad,” interrupted Peleg, “what d’ye say, what lay lay we give this young man?” man?” knowest best,” was the sepulchral reply, “the seven hundred and and wouldn’t be too much, would it?—‘where moth and rust do do but _lay_—’” _lay_—’” indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and and Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one, one, not _lay_ up many _lays_ here below, where moth and rust do do It was an exceedingly _long lay_ that, indeed; and though from from magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet yet slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and and is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a a of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and and part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven seven and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time. time. blast your eyes, Bildad,” cried Peleg, “thou dost not want to to this young man! he must have more than that.” that.” hundred and seventy-seventh,” again said Bildad, without lifting lifting eyes; and then went on mumbling—“for where your treasure is, there there your heart be also.” also.” am going to put him down for the three hundredth,” said Peleg, “do “do hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say.” say.” laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said, said, Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the the thou owest to the other owners of this ship—widows and orphans, orphans, of them—and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this this man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those those The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.” Peleg.” Bildad!” roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the the “Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these these I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be be enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape Cape Horn.” Peleg,” said Bildad steadily, “thy conscience may be drawing drawing inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou art art an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy thy be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering foundering to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.” Peleg.” pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye ye me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that that bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me, me, start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goat goat all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, canting, son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!” ye!” he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a a oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him. him. at this terrible outburst between the two principal and and owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all all of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily temporarily I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, who, made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened awakened of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the the very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of of He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As As Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more more in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a a as if still nervously agitated. “Whew!” he whistled at last—“the last—“the gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at at a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs needs grindstone. That’s he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man, man, thy name, didn’t ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael, Ishmael, the three hundredth lay.” lay.” Peleg,” said I, “I have a friend with me who wants to ship ship I bring him down to-morrow?” to-morrow?” be sure,” said Peleg. “Fetch him along, and we’ll look at him.” him.” lay does he want?” groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in in he had again been burying himself. himself. never thee mind about that, Bildad,” said Peleg. “Has he ever ever it any?” turning to me. me. more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.” Peleg.” bring him along then.” then.” after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I I done a good morning’s work, and that the Pequod was the identical identical that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape. Cape. I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the the with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though, though, in many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and and all her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by by to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, prolonged, the shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the the have a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he he not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to to owners till all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to to a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his his Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Captain was to be found. found. what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It’s all right enough; thou thou shipped.” shipped.” but I should like to see him.” him.” I don’t think thou wilt be able to at present. I don’t know know what’s the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the the a sort of sick, and yet he don’t look so. In fact, he ain’t ain’t but no, he isn’t well either. Any how, young man, he won’t always always me, so I don’t suppose he will thee. He’s a queer man, Captain Captain some think—but a good one. Oh, thou’lt like him well enough; no no no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; Ahab; speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen. listen. ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above the common; Ahab’s been in in as well as ’mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders wonders the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than than His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our our Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg; Peleg; Ahab_, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!” king!” a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did did not lick his blood?” blood?” hither to me—hither, hither,” said Peleg, with a significance in in eye that almost startled me. “Look ye, lad; never say that on board board Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself. himself. a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died died he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at at said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, And, other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn warn It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him as as years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man, man, Bildad, but a swearing good man—something like me—only there’s a a deal more of him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly; jolly; I know that on the passage home, he was a little out of his mind mind a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump stump brought that about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever ever he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he’s been a a of moody—desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all all off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young young it’s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad bad So good-bye to thee—and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens happens have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife—not three voyages voyages sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that that man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm harm Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his his humanities!” I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been been revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain certain vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time, time, felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don’t know what, what, it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange strange of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was was exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did did disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed seemed mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then. then. my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so so for the present dark Ahab slipped my mind. mind. 17. The Ramadan. Ramadan. Queequeg’s Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all all I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I I the greatest respect towards everybody’s religious obligations, obligations, mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue undervalue a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those other other in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of of quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the the of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the the possessions yet owned and rented in his name. name. say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these these and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals, mortals, and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on these these There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most most notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;—but what of that? Queequeg Queequeg he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content; content; there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let let be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans Pagans we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and and need mending. mending. evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and and must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; door; no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. inside. said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent. “I say, say, why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.” But all remained still still before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant abundant I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through through key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the the prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see see of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing nothing I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden wooden of Queequeg’s harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous previous taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That’s strange, strange, I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he he or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside inside and no possible mistake. mistake. still. Something must have happened. happened. I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted. resisted. down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person person met—the chamber-maid. “La! la!” she cried, “I thought something must must the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was was and not a mouse to be heard; and it’s been just so silent ever ever But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your your in for safe keeping. La! la, ma’am!—Mistress! murder! Mrs. Mrs. apoplexy!”—and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I I following. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a a in the other, having just broken away from the occupation occupation attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy boy meantime. cried I, “which way to it? Run for God’s sake, and fetch fetch to pry open the door—the axe!—the axe! he’s had a stroke; stroke; upon it!”—and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs stairs empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and and and the entire castor of her countenance. countenance. the matter with you, young man?” man?” the axe! For God’s sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry pry open!” open!” here,” said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, vinegar-cruet, as to have one hand free; “look here; are you talking about prying prying any of my doors?”—and with that she seized my arm. “What’s the the with you? What’s the matter with you, shipmate?” shipmate?” as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand understand whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of of nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed—“No! I haven’t haven’t it since I put it there.” Running to a little closet under the the of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that that harpoon was missing. “He’s killed himself,” she cried. “It’s “It’s Stiggs done over again—there goes another counterpane—God counterpane—God his poor mother!—it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad lad sister? Where’s that girl?—there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, Painter, tell him to paint me a sign, with—“no suicides permitted here, and and smoking in the parlor;”—might as well kill both birds at once. Kill? Kill? Lord be merciful to his ghost! What’s that noise there? You, young young avast there!” there!” running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force force the door. door. don’t allow it; I won’t have my premises spoiled. Go for the the there’s one about a mile from here. But avast!” putting her her in her side-pocket, “here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’s let’s And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg’s Queequeg’s bolt remained unwithdrawn within. within. to burst it open,” said I, and was running down the entry a a for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing vowing should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a a bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark. mark. a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming slamming the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good good there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right right the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on on of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat sat a carved image with scarce a sign of active life. life. said I, going up to him, “Queequeg, what’s the matter with with you?” hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?” said the landlady. landlady. all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt felt pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost almost it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained; constrained; as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of of or ten hours, going too without his regular meals. meals. Hussey,” said I, “he’s _alive_ at all events; so leave us, if you you and I will see to this strange affair myself.” myself.” the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon upon to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could could all my polite arts and blandishments—he would not move a peg, peg, say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in in slightest way. way. wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do do fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so; so; it’s part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he’ll he’ll up sooner or later, no doubt. It can’t last for ever, thank God, God, his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don’t believe it’s very very then. then. went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long long of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage, voyage, they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or or confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); only); listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o’clock, I I up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg Queequeg certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; there there was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began began grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to to sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, room, a piece of wood on his head. head. heaven’s sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and and some supper. You’ll starve; you’ll kill yourself, Queequeg.” But But a word did he reply. reply. of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep; sleep; no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to to in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as as promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his his round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not not into the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere mere of Queequeg—not four feet off—sitting there in that uneasy uneasy stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really really Think of it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide wide pagan on his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan! Ramadan! somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of of when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he he been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of of entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints, but but a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his his again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over. over. as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion, religion, it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any any person, because that other person don’t believe it also. But when when man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment torment him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to to in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and and the point with him. him. just so I now did with Queequeg. “Queequeg,” said I, “get into bed bed and lie and listen to me.” I then went on, beginning with the rise rise progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various various of the present time, during which time I labored to show show that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings ham-squattings cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; health; for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene Hygiene common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such such extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly badly me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous ridiculous of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; in; the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must must be half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic dyspeptic cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters. In In word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first first on an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated perpetuated the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans. Ramadans. then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with with expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it it He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great great given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle battle fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o’clock in the the and all cooked and eaten that very evening. evening. more, Queequeg,” said I, shuddering; “that will do;” for I knew the the without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor who who visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, custom, a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in in yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were were in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, pilau, breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, mouths, sent round with the victor’s compliments to all his friends, just just though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys. turkeys. all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much much upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow somehow dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered considered his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more more one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and, and, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true true than I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending condescending and compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such such sensible young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan pagan piety. last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty hearty of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not not much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the the sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones. bones. 18. His Mark. Mark. we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg Queequeg his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us us his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal, cannibal, furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that that unless they previously produced their papers. papers. do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?” said I, now jumping on the the and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf. wharf. mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.” papers.” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from from Peleg’s, out of the wigwam. “He must show that he’s converted. converted. of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at present present communion with any Christian church?” church?” said I, “he’s a member of the first Congregational Church.” Here Here it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at at come to be converted into the churches. churches. Congregational Church,” cried Bildad, “what! that worships in in Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?” and so saying, taking out out spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana bandana and putting them on very carefully, came out of the the and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at at Queequeg. long hath he been a member?” he then said, turning to me; “not “not long, I rather guess, young man.” man.” said Peleg, “and he hasn’t been baptized right either, or it it have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.” face.” tell, now,” cried Bildad, “is this Philistine a regular member of of Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass pass every Lord’s day.” day.” don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,” said said “all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First First Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.” is.” man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking with me—explain me—explain thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me.” me.” myself thus hard pushed, I replied. “I mean, sir, the same same Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, there, Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother’s son and soul of us us the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole whole world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some some crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in _that_ we all all hands.” hands.” thou mean’st _splice_ hands,” cried Peleg, drawing nearer. nearer. man, you’d better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast fore-mast I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy—why Father Father himself couldn’t beat it, and he’s reckoned something. Come Come come aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog Quohog that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great great what a harpoon he’s got there! looks like good stuff that; and and handles it about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did did ever stand in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a a fish?” saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon upon bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats whale-boats to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his his cried out in some such way as this:— this:— you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well, well, him one whale eye, well, den!” and taking sharp aim at it, he he the iron right over old Bildad’s broad brim, clean across the the decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight. sight. said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, “spos-ee him whale-e whale-e why, dad whale dead.” dead.” Bildad,” said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close close of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin cabin “Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship’s papers. We must must Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye, ye, we’ll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that’s more than ever was was a harpooneer yet out of Nantucket.” Nantucket.” down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon soon among the same ship’s company to which I myself belonged. belonged. all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for for he turned to me and said, “I guess, Quohog there don’t know know to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name name make thy mark?” mark?” at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken taken in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the the pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact exact of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so so through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching his his it stood something like this:— this:— his X mark. mark. Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, Queequeg, at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his his drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one one “The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,” placed it in in hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his, his, earnestly into his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, I must do do duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for for souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, ways, I sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial Belial Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the the to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer steer of the fiery pit!” pit!” of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language, language, mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases. phrases. there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,” harpooneer,” Peleg. “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes the the out of ’em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty pretty There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out out all Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never never to good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he he and sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case case got stove and went to Davy Jones.” Jones.” Peleg!” said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, “thou thyself, thyself, I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what what is to have the fear of death; how, then, can’st thou prate in this this guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this this Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on on that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did’st did’st not think of Death and the Judgment then?” then?” him, hear him now,” cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and and his hands far down into his pockets,—“hear him, all of ye. ye. of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink! Death Death the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an an thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over over fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to to about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking thinking and how to save all hands—how to rig jury-masts—how to get into the the port; that was what I was thinking of.” of.” said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, where where followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some some who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then he he to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which which might have been wasted. wasted. 19. The Prophet. Prophet. have ye shipped in that ship?” ship?” and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from from water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the the words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, us, his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but but apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a a handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all all flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated complicated bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up. up. ye shipped in her?” he repeated. repeated. mean the ship Pequod, I suppose,” said I, trying to gain a little little time for an uninterrupted look at him. him. the Pequod—that ship there,” he said, drawing back his whole arm, arm, then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed fixed of his pointed finger darted full at the object. object. said I, “we have just signed the articles.” articles.” down there about your souls?” souls?” what?” what?” perhaps you hav’n’t got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though, though, know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ’em; and they are are the better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a a wagon.” are you jabbering about, shipmate?” said I. I. got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that that in other chaps,” abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous nervous upon the word _he_. _he_. said I, “let’s go; this fellow has broken loose from from he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.” know.” cried the stranger. “Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunder Thunder have ye?” ye?” Old Thunder?” said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness earnestness his manner. manner. Ahab.” Ahab.” the captain of our ship, the Pequod?” Pequod?” among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye Ye seen him yet, have ye?” ye?” we hav’n’t. He’s sick they say, but is getting better, and will be be right again before long.” long.” right again before long!” laughed the stranger, with a solemnly solemnly sort of laugh. “Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, then then left arm of mine will be all right; not before.” before.” do you know about him?” him?” did they _tell_ you about him? Say that!” that!” didn’t tell much of anything about him; only I’ve heard that he’s he’s good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.” crew.” true, that’s true—yes, both true enough. But you must jump when when gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go—that’s the word with with Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off off Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nights; about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar altar Santa?—heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver silver he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last last according to the prophecy. Didn’t ye hear a word about them them and something more, eh? No, I don’t think ye did; how could ye? ye? knows it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows’ever, mayhap, ye’ve ye’ve tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of of I dare say. Oh yes, _that_ every one knows a’most—I mean they they he’s only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.” off.” friend,” said I, “what all this gibberish of yours is about, I I know, and I don’t much care; for it seems to me that you must be be little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, Ahab, that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all all the loss of his leg.” leg.” about it, eh—sure you do?—all?” do?—all?” sure.” sure.” finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like beggar-like stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a a turned and said:—“Ye’ve shipped, have ye? Names down on the the Well, well, what’s signed, is signed; and what’s to be, will will and then again, perhaps it won’t be, after all. Anyhow, it’s all all and arranged a’ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, him, suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity ’em! Morning to ye, ye, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I’m sorry I stopped stopped ye.” here, friend,” said I, “if you have anything important to tell tell out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are are in your game; that’s all I have to say.” say.” it’s said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; way; are just the man for him—the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates, shipmates, Oh! when ye get there, tell ’em I’ve concluded not to make one one ’em.” ’em.” my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. It It the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a a secret in him.” him.” to ye, shipmates, morning.” morning.” it is,” said I. “Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy crazy But stop, tell me your name, will you?” you?” “Elijah.” thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each each fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was was but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone gone above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and and back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, us, at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I I nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my my anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner corner we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us, us, with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This This coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing, half-revealing, sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments wonderments half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain Captain and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver silver and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship ship day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the the we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy shadowy things. was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was really really us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg, Queequeg, on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on, on, seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and and as it seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug. humbug. 20. All Astir. Astir. day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod. Pequod. only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on on and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything everything that the ship’s preparations were hurrying to a close. close. Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam wigwam a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing purchasing providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on on rigging were working till long after night-fall. night-fall. the day following Queequeg’s signing the articles, word was given at at the inns where the ship’s company were stopping, that their chests chests be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon the the might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps, traps, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they they give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail sail several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and and is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod Pequod fully equipped. equipped. one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans, knives and and shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are are to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling, whaling, necessitates a three-years’ housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far far all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And And this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means means the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of of whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution prosecution the fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote remote usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships, ships, vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and and to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which which success of the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spare and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but but spare Captain and duplicate ship. ship. the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the the had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water, water, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time time was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and and of things, both large and small. small. among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Captain sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable indefatigable but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if _she_ _she_ help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after after fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a a of pickles for the steward’s pantry; another time with a bunch of of for the chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third time time a roll of flannel for the small of some one’s rheumatic back. back. did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt Charity—Aunt as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this this Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn turn hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, comfort, consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother brother was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of of dollars. dollars. it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on on as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and and still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor nor Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him him long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down down his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a a Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men men the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and and concluded by roaring back into his wigwam. wigwam. these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the the and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and and he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions they they answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected expected every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could could to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I I been downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly plainly my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so so a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the the dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open open But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he he already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up up suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I I nothing, and tried to think nothing. nothing. last it was given out that some time next day the ship would would sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early early start. 21. Going Aboard. Aboard. was nearly six o’clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we we nigh the wharf. wharf. are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right,” said I to to “it can’t be shadows; she’s off by sunrise, I guess; come come on!” cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close close us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating insinuating between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain uncertain strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah. Elijah. aboard?” aboard?” off, will you,” said I. I. here,” said Queequeg, shaking himself, “go ’way!” ’way!” going aboard, then?” then?” we are,” said I, “but what business is that of yours? Do you you Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?” impertinent?” no, no; I wasn’t aware of that,” said Elijah, slowly and and looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable unaccountable glances. said I, “you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We We going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be be detained.” be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?” breakfast?” cracked, Queequeg,” said I, “come on.” on.” cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few few paces. mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.” on.” he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my my said—“Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that that a while ago?” ago?” by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, “Yes, “Yes, thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.” sure.” dim, very dim,” said Elijah. “Morning to ye.” ye.” more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and and my shoulder again, said, “See if you can find ’em now, will will ye? who?” who?” to ye! morning to ye!” he rejoined, again moving off. “Oh! I I going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one, one, in the family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye to to Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before the the Jury.” And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving leaving for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence. impudence. last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound profound not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the the were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward forward the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a a we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a a pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his his downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber slumber upon him. him. sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?” said I, I, dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the the Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I I have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that that were it not for Elijah’s otherwise inexplicable question. But I I the thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to to that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to to himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper’s rear, rear, though feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, ado, quietly down there. there. Queequeg, don’t sit there,” said I. I. perry dood seat,” said Queequeg, “my country way; won’t hurt him him face.” said I, “call that his face? very benevolent countenance then; then; how hard he breathes, he’s heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you you heavy, it’s grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look, Look, twitch you off soon. I wonder he don’t wake.” wake.” removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and and his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing passing the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning questioning in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his his owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king, king, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening fattening of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house house in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy lazy and lay them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was was convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs garden-chairs are convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief chief his attendant, and desiring him to make a settee of himself himself a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy place. place. narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk tomahawk me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper’s head. head. that for, Queequeg?” Queequeg?” easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!” easy!” was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe, tomahawk-pipe, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed soothed soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The The vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to to upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed seemed in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and and his eyes. eyes. he breathed at last, “who be ye smokers?” smokers?” men,” answered I, “when does she sail?” sail?” aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain Captain aboard last night.” night.” Captain?—Ahab?” Captain?—Ahab?” but him indeed?” indeed?” was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we we a noise on deck. deck. Starbuck’s astir,” said the rigger. “He’s a lively chief mate, mate, good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.” And so so he went on deck, and we followed. followed. was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and and the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively actively and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various various things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly invisibly within his cabin. cabin. 22. Merry Christmas. Christmas. length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship’s ship’s and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and and the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with with last gift—a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her her and a spare Bible for the steward—after all this, the the Captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to to chief mate, Peleg said: said: Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is is ready—just spoke to him—nothing more to be got from shore, eh? eh? call all hands, then. Muster ’em aft here—blast ’em!” ’em!” need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg,” said said “but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.” bidding.” now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Captain and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the the just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as as as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign sign him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But But the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in in the ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed, Indeed, that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot’s; and as he he not yet completely recovered—so they said—therefore, Captain Ahab Ahab below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the the service many captains never show themselves on deck for a a time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the the table, having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, friends, they quit the ship for good with the pilot. pilot. there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Captain was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and and and not Bildad. Bildad. here, ye sons of bachelors,” he cried, as the sailors lingered at at main-mast. “Mr. Starbuck, drive ’em aft.” aft.” the tent there!”—was the next order. As I hinted before, this this marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the the for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known known be the next thing to heaving up the anchor. anchor. the capstan! Blood and thunder!—jump!”—was the next command, and and crew sprang for the handspikes. handspikes. in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot pilot the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be be known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed licensed of the port—he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot pilot order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was was in, for he never piloted any other craft—Bildad, I say, might might be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the the anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave stave psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some some of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good good Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that that profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in in under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice choice of Watts in each seaman’s berth. berth. overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped ripped swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he he sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I I on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of of perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for for pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in in Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred hundred seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, rear, turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in in act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my my kick. kick. that the way they heave in the marchant service?” he roared. roared. thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t ye ye I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red red spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I I all of ye, and spring your eyes out!” And so saying, he moved moved the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while while Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I, I, Peleg must have been drinking something to-day. to-day. last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It It a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into into we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose whose spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of of on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white white tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from from bows. bows. Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as as old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering shivering all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his his notes were heard,— heard,— fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living living So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.”_ between.”_ did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. They They full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in in boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there there yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and and and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the the untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer. midsummer. last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed no no The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging ranging alongside. was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected affected this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet; yet; loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a a both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of his his earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate shipmate as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to to all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to to thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,—poor old Bildad Bildad long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the the to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and and to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only only by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the the looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere and and and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, pin, grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern, lantern, a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say, say, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.” can.” for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all all philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern lantern too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—now deck—now word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate. mate. at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about about Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the main-yard main-yard Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful, Careful, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to to Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye ye this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye in in Nantucket. Hurrah and away!” away!” bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured old old almost incoherently. “I hope ye’ll have fine weather now, so so Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he he and ye’ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Be Be in the hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave the boats needlessly, ye ye good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent. cent. the year. Don’t forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind mind cooper don’t waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in in green locker! Don’t whale it too much a’ Lord’s days, men; but but miss a fair chance either, that’s rejecting Heaven’s good gifts. gifts. an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I I If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. fornication. good-bye! Don’t keep that cheese too long down in the hold, hold, Starbuck; it’ll spoil. Be careful with the butter—twenty cents the the it was, and mind ye, if—” if—” come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,—away!” and with that, that, hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat. boat. and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a a gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave gave heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone lone Atlantic. 23. The Lee Shore. Shore. chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded newlanded encountered in New Bedford at the inn. inn. on that shivering winter’s night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive vindictive into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her her but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon upon man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years’ dangerous dangerous could so unrestingly push off again for still another another term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest Wonderfullest are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; epitaphs; six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only only that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that that drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give give the port is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, comfort, supper, warm blankets, friends, all that’s kind to our our But in that gale, the port, the land, is that ship’s ship’s jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of land, land, it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and and With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing, doing, ’gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks seeks the lashed sea’s landlessness again; for refuge’s sake forlornly forlornly into peril; her only friend her bitterest foe! foe! ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally mortally truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid intrepid of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while the the winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the the slavish shore? shore? as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless, shoreless, as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite, infinite, be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! For For then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of the the is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, O O Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy thy up, leaps thy apotheosis! apotheosis! 24. The Advocate. Advocate. Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling; whaling; as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among among as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I I all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby hereby to us hunters of whales. whales. the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish establish fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not not on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a a were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society, society, would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were were presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation emulation the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm Whale Whale to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed deemed presuming and ridiculous. ridiculous. one leading reason why the world declines honoring us us is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a a sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we we surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is is But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been been Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor. And And for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye ye soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally generally and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm sperm at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But But granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered disordered decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable unspeakable of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to to in all ladies’ plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much much the popular conceit of the soldier’s profession; let me assure assure that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery, would would recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale’s vast tail, tail, into eddies the air over his head. For what are the the terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and and of God! God! though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it it pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding all-abounding for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn burn the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory! glory! look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of of see what we whalemen are, and have been. been. did the Dutch in De Witt’s time have admirals of their whaling whaling Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit fit whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some some or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did did between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties bounties of £1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of of now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; world; a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen eighteen men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, worth, the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our our a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if if be not something puissant in whaling? whaling? this is not the half; look again. again. freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, life, out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty sixty has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken taken one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way way another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so so momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may may be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves themselves from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to to all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past past whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and and known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes archipelagoes had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If If and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage savage let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of the the which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted interpreted them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the the of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I I that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket, Nantucket, were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. Krusenstern. in their succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish heathenish waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, islands, with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines marines muskets would not willingly have dared. All that is made such a a of in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the the commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures adventures Vancouver dedicates three chapters to, these men accounted accounted of being set down in the ship’s common log. Ah, the world! Oh, Oh, world! world! the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, colonial, any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe Europe the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific Pacific It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy policy the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted, permitted, might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated eventuated liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, Spain, the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts. parts. great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was was to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first first discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned shunned shores as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched touched The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. colony. in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the the were several times saved from starvation by the benevolent benevolent of the whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. waters. uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do do homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the the and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive primitive to their first destinations. If that double-bolted land, land, is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom whom credit will be due; for already she is on the threshold. threshold. if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no no noble associations connected with it, then am I ready to to fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmet helmet time. time. whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you you say. say. whale no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?_ Who Who the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who who the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a a than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down down words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And And pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke! Burke! enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no no blood in their veins. veins. good blood in their veins?_ They have something better than royal royal there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel; Morrel; by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of of and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and and kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting the the iron from one side of the world to the other. other. again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not not respectable. not respectable?_ Whaling is imperial! By old English English law, the whale is declared “a royal fish.” * * that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any any imposing way. way. whale never figured in any grand imposing way?_ In one of the the triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world’s world’s the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian Syrian were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.* procession.* subsequent chapters for something more on this head. head. it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real real in whaling. whaling. dignity in whaling?_ The dignity of our calling the very heavens heavens Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your your in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I I a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty fifty I account that man more honorable than that great captain of of who boasted of taking as many walled towns. towns. as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet yet prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute repute that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably unreasonably of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a a might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at my death, death, executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in in desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory glory whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard. Harvard. 25. Postscript. Postscript. behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but but facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who who wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might tell tell upon his cause—such an advocate, would he not be be blameworthy? is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even even ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their their is gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called, called, there may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, salt, knows? Certain I am, however, that a king’s head is is oiled at his coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be, be, that they anoint it with a view of making its interior run run as they anoint machinery? Much might be ruminated here, here, the essential dignity of this regal process, because in in life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints anoints hair, and palpably smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man man uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got a a spot in him somewhere. As a general rule, he can’t amount to to in his totality. totality. the only thing to be considered here, is this—what kind of oil is is at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar macassar nor castor oil, nor bear’s oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. oil. then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unmanufactured, state, the sweetest of all oils? oils? of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and and with coronation stuff! stuff! 26. Knights and Squires. Squires. chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a a by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an an coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being being as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood blood not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time time general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which which state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those those had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his his so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties anxieties cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was was the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; ill-looking; the contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and and wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength, strength, a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for for ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow snow torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was was to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed seemed see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he he calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life life the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame tame of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there there certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some some seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly Uncommonly for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence, reverence, wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly incline incline to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some some seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than than ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And And at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more more his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, child, to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, nature, open him still further to those latent influences which, in some some men, restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often often by others in the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. “I “I have no man in my boat,” said Starbuck, “who is not afraid of a a By this, he seemed to mean, not only that the most reliable and and courage was that which arises from the fair estimation of the the peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a far more more comrade than a coward. coward. aye,” said Stubb, the second mate, “Starbuck, there, is as as a man as you’ll find anywhere in this fishery.” But we shall shall long see what that word “careful” precisely means when used by a a like Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter. hunter. was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a a but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon upon mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in in business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits outfits the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly foolishly Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after after nor for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted persisted fighting him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical critical to kill whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for for and that hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew. knew. doom was his own father’s? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could could find the torn limbs of his brother? brother? memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain certain as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which which nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But But was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such such experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature nature these things should fail in latently engendering an element in in which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its its and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it it that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which, which, generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or or or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet yet withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors, terrors, sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged enraged mighty man. man. were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete complete of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have the heart heart write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose expose fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint joint and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be; be; may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble noble so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any any blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their their robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so so within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character character gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a a man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight, sight, stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But But august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, robes, that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt shalt it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that that dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; God; The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all all His omnipresence, our divine equality! equality! then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall shall ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic tragic if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among among all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall shall that workman’s arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a a over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics critics me out in it, thou just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one one mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou thou democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, convict, the pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly doubly leaves of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old old Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who who hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a a Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest cullest selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O O God! 27. Knights and Squires. Squires. was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, hence, to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky; happy-go-lucky; craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an an air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the the toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged engaged the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his his as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his his all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable comfortable of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about about snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very very of the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and and as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his his rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most exasperated exasperated Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death death an easy chair. What he thought of death itself, there is no no Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; question; if he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a a dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a a of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, there, something which he would find out when he obeyed the order, and and sooner. sooner. perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going, easy-going, man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a a full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs; packs; helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that that must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black black pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would would as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his his as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready ready stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever whenever turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from from other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in in anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his his into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth. mouth. say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his his disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, air, ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless nameless of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in in of the cholera, some people go about with a camphorated camphorated to their mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal mortal Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of of agent. agent. third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. A A stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales, whales, somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally personally hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of of with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost lost he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic majestic and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of of possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, opinion, wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least least requiring only a little circumvention and some small small of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This This unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in in matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a a years’ voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted lasted length of time. As a carpenter’s nails are divided into wrought wrought and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask Flask one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They They him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could could well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in in whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers timbers into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions concussions those battering seas. seas. these three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men. men. it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the the boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which which Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the the these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being being with their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio trio lancers; even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins. javelins. since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Gothic of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, harpooneer, in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when the the one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and and as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy intimacy friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we set set who the Pequod’s harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of of belonged. belonged. of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected selected his squire. But Queequeg is already known. known. was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly westerly of Martha’s Vineyard, where there still exists the last last of a village of red men, which has long supplied the the island of Nantucket with many of her most daring daring In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name of of Tashtego’s long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones, bones, black rounding eyes—for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but but in their glittering expression—all this sufficiently sufficiently him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud proud hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had had bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main. But no longer longer in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now now in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon harpoon the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To look look the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have have the superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and and this wild Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers Powers the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire. squire. among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black coal-black with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended Suspended his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called called ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to to In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, whaler, in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been been in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors harbors frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold bold of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what what of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues, virtues, erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six six five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at at and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to to truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro, negro, Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a a beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod’s company, be it it that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men men the mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans Americans though pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same same the American whale fishery as with the American army and military military merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the the of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, say, in all these cases the native American liberally provides the the the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No No number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the the bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews crews the hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the the whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Shetland to receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage passage they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling, telling, Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all all in the Pequod, _Isolatoes_ too, I call such, not not the common continent of men, but each _Isolato_ living on on separate continent of his own. Yet now, federated along one keel, keel, a set these Isolatoes were! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from from the isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying accompanying Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world’s grievances before that bar bar which not very many of them ever come back. Black Little Pip—he Pip—he did—oh, no! he went before. Poor Alabama boy! On the grim grim forecastle, ye shall ere long see him, beating his tambourine; tambourine; of the eternal time, when sent for, to the great quarter-deck quarter-deck high, he was bid strike in with angels, and beat his tambourine in in called a coward here, hailed a hero there! there! 28. Ahab. Ahab. several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was was of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the the and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed seemed be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from from cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was was they but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and and was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to to into the now sacred retreat of the cabin. cabin. time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly instantly aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague vague touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the the became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened at at by the ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly uninvitedly to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived conceived But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was was ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish outlandish of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or or call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to look look me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such such For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew, crew, a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the the merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me me with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to the the uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation vocation which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the the of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was was forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and and confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. voyage. better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own own way, could not readily be found, and they were every one of of Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being being when the ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had had Polar weather, though all the time running away from it to the the and by every degree and minute of latitude which we sailed, sailed, leaving that merciless winter, and all its intolerable intolerable behind us. It was one of those less lowering, but still grey grey gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind the the was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping leaping melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of of forenoon watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the the foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran apprehension; apprehension; Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck. quarter-deck. seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the the from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when when fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them, them, taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. His His high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an an mould, like Cellini’s cast Perseus. Threading its way out out among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his his scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing, you you a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that that seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of a a tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and and wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from from to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still still alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, or or it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could could say. By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or or allusion was made to it, especially by the mates. But once once senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, crew, asserted that not till he was full forty years old did did become that way branded, and then it came upon him, not in the the of any mortal fray, but in an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this this hint seemed inferentially negatived, by what a grey Manxman Manxman an old sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed out out Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, Nevertheless, old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly invested invested old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that no no sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever ever Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to to so he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office for the the would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole. sole. powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the the brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly hardly that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the the white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come come me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished polished of the sperm whale’s jaw. “Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,” said said old Gay-Head Indian once; “but like his dismasted craft, he shipped shipped mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ’em.” ’em.” was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of of Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, shrouds, was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the the His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and and by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out out the ship’s ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest firmest a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and and forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor nor his officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest minutest and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not not consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not not that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion crucifixion his face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some some woe. woe. long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin. cabin. after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either either in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or or walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to to a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as if, if, the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry wintry of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it it to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet, yet, all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck, he he as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was only only a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling whaling needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so so there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite excite now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that that upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose choose loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon. upon. ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the the holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm him him his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and and trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, barest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some some green sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, did, the end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish girlish More than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, look, in any other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile. smile. 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb. Stubb. days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went went through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost almost reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the the The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, overflowing, days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped heaped up, with rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights nights haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely lonely the memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted helmeted For sleeping man, ’twas hard to choose between such winsome days days such seducing nights. But all the witcheries of that unwaning unwaning did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward outward Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mild mild of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear ice ice forms of noiseless twilights. And all these subtle agencies, more more more they wrought on Ahab’s texture. texture. age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less less has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders, sea-commanders, old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the the deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he he so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits visits more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. “It feels feels going down into one’s tomb,”—he would mutter to himself—“for an an captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my my berth.” berth.” almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were were and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; below; when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors sailors it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt dropt to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when when sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the the steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old old would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled crippled Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like like he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because because his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory ivory such would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony bony that their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of of But once, the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; regardings; as with heavy, lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from from to mainmast, Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, below, a certain unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if if Ahab was pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say say but there might be some way of muffling the noise; hinting hinting indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the the into it, of the ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know know then. then. I a cannon-ball, Stubb,” said Ahab, “that thou wouldst wad me that that But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave; grave; such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at at dog, and kennel!” kennel!” at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly suddenly old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, excitedly, am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half half it, sir.” sir.” gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away, away, if to avoid some passionate temptation. temptation. sir; not yet,” said Stubb, emboldened, “I will not tamely be be a dog, sir.” sir.” be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone, begone, I’ll clear the world of thee!” thee!” he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors terrors his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated. retreated. was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,” it,” Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. “It’s “It’s queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don’t well know whether to go go and strike him, or—what’s that?—down here on my knees and pray for for Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the the time I ever _did_ pray. It’s queer; very queer; and he’s queer queer aye, take him fore and aft, he’s about the queerest old man Stubb Stubb sailed with. How he flashed at me!—his eyes like powder-pans! is is mad? Anyway there’s something on his mind, as sure as there must be be on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either, either, than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don’t sleep then. then. that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always always the old man’s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the the down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and and pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on on A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call a a it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a a Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep me me catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the the hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’s what’s for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him in in hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But there’s no telling, it’s the old old goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to be be into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think think it, that’s about the first thing babies do, and that’s a sort of of too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em. ’em. that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh eleventh and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again. again. how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times times donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of _that!_ He might as as have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he _did_ kick me, and I I observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It It like a bleached bone. What the devil’s the matter with me? I I stand right on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort sort turned me wrong side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, dreaming, how? how?—but the only way’s to stash it; so here goes to to again; and in the morning, I’ll see how this plaguey juggling juggling over by daylight.” daylight.” 30. The Pipe. Pipe. Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the the and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling a a of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also also pipe. Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool stool the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked. smoked. old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were were saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could could look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without without him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, plank, a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab. Ahab. moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth mouth quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. “How “How he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, “this smoking no no soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be be Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring—aye, and and smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with with nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were were strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this this This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white white among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like like I’ll smoke no more—” more—” tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the the the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe pipe With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks. planks. 31. Queen Mab. Mab. morning Stubb accosted Flask. Flask. a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man’s man’s leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to to back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And And presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kept at it. But what was still more curious, Flask—you know how how all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehow somehow to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an an that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s not not real leg, only a false leg.’ And there’s a mighty difference between between living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from the the Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. cane. living member—that makes the living insult, my little man. And And I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly silly against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was it it all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his leg leg but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only a a cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a a kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, the end of it—the it—the part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed footed kicked me, _there’s_ a devilish broad insult. But this insult is is down to a point only.’ But now comes the greatest joke of the the Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of of old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the the and slews me round. ‘What are you ’bout?’ says he. Slid! Slid! but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was was the fright. ‘What am I about?’ says I at last. ‘And what business business that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do _you_ want a a By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned turned his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he he for a clout—what do you think, I saw?—why thunder alive, man, his his was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on on thoughts, ‘I guess I won’t kick you, old fellow.’ ‘Wise Stubb,’ Stubb,’ he, ‘wise Stubb;’ and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of of of his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn’t going to to saying over his ‘wise Stubb, wise Stubb,’ I thought I might as as fall to kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my my for it, when he roared out, ‘Stop that kicking!’ ‘Halloa,’ says I, I, the matter now, old fellow?’ ‘Look ye here,’ says he; ‘let’s ‘let’s the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ did,’ I—‘right _here_ it was.’ ‘Very good,’ says he—‘he used his ivory ivory didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I. ‘Well then,’ says he, ‘wise ‘wise what have you to complain of? Didn’t he kick with right good good it wasn’t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you you kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It’s It’s honor; I consider it an honor. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England England greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and and garter-knights of; but, be _your_ boast, Stubb, that ye were were by old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; _be_ _be_ by him; account his kicks honors; and on no account kick back; back; you can’t help yourself, wise Stubb. Don’t you see that pyramid?’ pyramid?’ that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to to off into the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my my Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?” Flask?” don’t know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.’” tho.’” be; may be. But it’s made a wise man of me, Flask. D’ye see Ahab Ahab there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing thing can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him, him, he says. Halloa! What’s that he shouts? Hark!” Hark!” there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts! hereabouts! ye see a white one, split your lungs for him! him! do you think of that now, Flask? ain’t there a small drop of of queer about that, eh? A white whale—did ye mark that, man? man? ye—there’s something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask. Flask. has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.” way.” 32. Cetology. Cetology. we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost lost its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere ere Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of of leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter matter indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the the special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which which to follow. follow. is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera, genera, I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The The of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here here Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down. down. branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled entitled says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820. 1820. is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiry inquiry to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families. families. * * Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal” animal” whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839. 1839. to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.” waters.” veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea.” “A field field with thorns.” “All these incomplete indications but serve to to us naturalists.” naturalists.” speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, Lesson, lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real real there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in in small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are are men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at at or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:—The Authors Authors the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner; Gesner; Linnæus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson; Brisson; Lacépède; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Frederick John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; Browne; Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to to ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above above extracts will show. show. the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen Owen saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional professional and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate separate of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing existing But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great great whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy unworthy And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper usurper the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest of of whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the the ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the the fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to to present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats retreats whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference Reference nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past past will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was was them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a a proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,—the all,—the whale is deposed,—the great sperm whale now reigneth! reigneth! are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the the sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest remotest succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale’s and Bennett’s; Bennett’s; in their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both both and reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to to found in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, goes, is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific scientific As yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, poetic, not complete in any literature. Far above all other hunted hunted his is an unwritten life. life. the various species of whales need some sort of popular popular classification, if only an easy outline one for the the hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent subsequent As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I I offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete; complete; any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very very infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical anatomical of the various species, or—in this place at least—to much much any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of of systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder. builder. it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the the is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea sea them; to have one’s hands among the unspeakable foundations, foundations, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I I I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful awful in Job might well appal me. Will he (the leviathan) make a a with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam swam libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with with with these visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There There some preliminaries to settle. settle. The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology Cetology in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it it remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of of A.D. 1776, Linnæus declares, “I hereby separate the whales from from fish.” But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850, 1850, and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnæus’s express edict, edict, still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the the Leviathan. grounds upon which Linnæus would fain have banished the whales from from waters, he states as follows: “On account of their warm bilocular bilocular their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem penem feminam mammis lactantem,” and finally, “ex lege naturæ jure jure I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley Charley of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and and united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether altogether Charley profanely hinted they were humbug. humbug. it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned fashioned that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me. me. fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal internal does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnæus has given given those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood; blood; all other fish are lungless and cold blooded. blooded. how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as as to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a a is _a spouting fish with a horizontal tail_. There you have him. him. contracted, that definition is the result of expanded expanded A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a a because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is is more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have have that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a a or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, tail, it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal horizontal position. the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude exclude the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified identified the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other other link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded as as Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish fish be included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the the divisions of the entire whale host. host. am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and and (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are are by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish pig-fish a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, rivers, feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny deny credentials as whales; and have presented them with their their to quit the Kingdom of Cetology. Cetology. According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary primary (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them them both small and large. large. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE. WHALE. the type of the FOLIO I present the _Sperm Whale_; of the OCTAVO, OCTAVO, _Grampus_; of the DUODECIMO, the _Porpoise_. _Porpoise_. Among these I here include the following chapters:—I. The The Whale_; II. the _Right Whale_; III. the _Fin-Back Whale_; IV. IV. _Hump-backed Whale_; V. the _Razor Back Whale_; VI. the _Sulphur _Sulphur Whale_. Whale_. I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER I. (_Sperm Whale_).—This whale, among the the of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter Physeter and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the the and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the the Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe; globe; most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in in and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being the the creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is is All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged enlarged It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically Philologically it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was was wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil oil only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days days it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a a identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland Greenland Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was was quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable syllable the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was was scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment ointment medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you you buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of of the true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was was retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a a so strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation appellation at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this this was really derived. derived. I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER II. (_Right Whale_).—In one respect this is is most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly regularly by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or or and the oil specially known as “whale oil,” an inferior article article commerce. Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by by the following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Black the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a a of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus thus baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in in second species of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the the naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the the Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the the It is the whale which for more than two centuries past has been been by the Dutch and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale whale the American fishermen have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on on Brazil Banks, on the Nor’ West Coast, and various other parts of of world, designated by them Right Whale Cruising Grounds. Grounds. pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the the and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree agree all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single single fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by by subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that that departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. intricate. right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with with to elucidating the sperm whale. whale. I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER III. (_Fin-Back_).—Under this head I reckon reckon monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and and has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale whale distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the the in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and and his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less less girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great great present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting slanting of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, fin, which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin fin some three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder hinder of the back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed pointed Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, visible, isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the the When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with with ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows shadows the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery watery surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and and hour-lines graved on it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes goes The Fin-Back is not gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some some are man-haters. Very shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly unexpectedly to the surface in the remotest and most sullen waters; his his and single lofty jet rising like a tall misanthropic spear spear a barren plain; gifted with such wondrous power and velocity in in as to defy all present pursuit from man; this leviathan seems seems banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing for his mark mark style upon his back. From having the baleen in his mouth, the the is sometimes included with the right whale, among a theoretic theoretic denominated _Whalebone whales_, that is, whales with baleen. Of Of so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several several most of which, however, are little known. Broad-nosed whales whales beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed under-jawed and rostrated whales, are the fishermen’s names for a few sorts. sorts. connection with this appellative of “Whalebone whales,” it is of of importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be be in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is is vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded founded either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that that marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to to the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other other bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. presents. then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose whose are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales, whales, any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in in and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the the whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. ceases. this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these these baleen; but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the the with the other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, whales, form such irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of of detached, such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all all methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one one the whale-naturalists has split. split. it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the the in his anatomy—there, at least, we shall be able to hit the the classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the the whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have have that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the the whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various various why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as as to the systematizer as those external ones already already What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales whales in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way. way. this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only only that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed. proceed. I. (_Folio_) CHAPTER IV. (_Hump Back_).—This whale is often seen seen the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, there, towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or or might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the the name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the the whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very very He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of of the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any any of them. them. I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_).—Of this whale little is is but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a a nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no no he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which which in a long sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor nor anybody else. else. I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER VI. (_Sulphur Bottom_).—Another retiring retiring with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the the tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen; seen; least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and and always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is is chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are are of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true true ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer. Nantucketer. ends BOOK I. (_Folio_), and now begins BOOK II. (_Octavo_). (_Octavo_). embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which which may be numbered:—I., the _Grampus_; II., the _Black Fish_; Fish_; the _Narwhale_; IV., the _Thrasher_; V., the _Killer_. _Killer_. this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain. plain. while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of of former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them them figure, yet the bookbinder’s Quarto volume in its dimensioned form form not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume volume does. II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER I. (_Grampus_).—Though this fish, whose whose sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb to to is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not not classed among whales. But possessing all the grand grand features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised recognised for one. He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to to feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the the He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil oil considerable in quantity, and pretty good for light. By some some his approach is regarded as premonitory of the advance of the the sperm whale. whale. II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER II. (_Black Fish_).—I give the popular popular names for all these fish, for generally they are the best. best. any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and and another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called, so-called, blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the the Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the the that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he he an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale whale some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost almost latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin fin swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more more employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the the whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic domestic some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and and alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax. wax. their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you you of thirty gallons of oil. oil. II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER III. (_Narwhale_), that is, _Nostril _Nostril instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose suppose his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The The is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five five though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly Strictly this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw jaw a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only found found the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner owner analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What What purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to to It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and and though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for for rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin Coffin it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the the of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his his up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these these to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided one-sided may really be used by the Narwhale—however that may be—it would would be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets. pamphlets. Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, whale, the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the the to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From From cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same same horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote antidote poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices. prices. was also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same same that the horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. hartshorn. it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity. curiosity. Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that that when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him him a window of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the the “when Sir Martin returned from that voyage,” saith Black Black “on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious long long of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in the castle castle Windsor.” An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on on knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, horn, to a land beast of the unicorn nature. nature. Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a a ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black. black. oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it, it, he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas. seas. II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER IV. (_Killer_).—Of this whale little is is known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed professed From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say say he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage—a sort of of fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and and there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. death. Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. has. might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the the of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on on Bonapartes and Sharks included. included. II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_).—This gentleman is famous famous his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He He the Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage by by him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar similar Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both Both outlaws, even in the lawless seas. seas. ends BOOK II. (_Octavo_), and begins BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_). (_Duodecimo_). include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise. Porpoise. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise. Porpoise. those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may may seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five five should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popular popular always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down down as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my my of what a whale is—_i.e._ a spouting fish, with a horizontal horizontal tail. III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER 1. (_Huzza Porpoise_).—This is the the porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own own for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something something be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always always in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing tossing to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their Their is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of of spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. windward. are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted accounted lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding beholding vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly godly is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield yield one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid fluid from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among among and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise meat meat good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that a a spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very very discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; him; you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature. miniature. III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER II. (_Algerine Porpoise_).—A pirate. pirate. savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat somewhat than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. make. him, and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many many but never yet saw him captured. captured. III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER III. (_Mealy-mouthed Porpoise_).—The Porpoise_).—The kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it it known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been been is that of the fishers—Right-Whale Porpoise, from the the that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In In he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a a rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and and figure. He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises porpoises he has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hazel But his mealy-mouth spoils all. Though his entire back down to his his fins is of a deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark mark a ship’s hull, called the “bright waist,” that line streaks him from from to stern, with two separate colours, black above and white below. below. white comprises part of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which which him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to a a A most mean and mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of of common porpoise. porpoise. * * * * * * the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as the the is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the the of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, fugitive, whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by by but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their their appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to to investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If If of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then then can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his his Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Junk the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the the Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; Whale; Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic, Icelandic, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists lists uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I I them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them them mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing. nothing. It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be be and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have have my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus thus even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the the still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small small may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true true ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever ever anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but the the of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience! Patience! 33. The Specksnyder. Specksnyder. the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place place any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising arising the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown unknown course in any other marine than the whale-fleet. whale-fleet. large importance attached to the harpooneer’s vocation is evinced evinced the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries centuries more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in the the now called the captain, but was divided between him and an an called the Specksnyder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter; Fat-Cutter; however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In In days, the captain’s authority was restricted to the navigation navigation general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting whale-hunting and all its concerns, the Specksnyder or Chief Harpooneer Harpooneer supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted corrupted of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but but former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply as as Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain’s more more subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the the the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since since the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the the but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling whaling the command of the ship’s deck is also his; therefore the grand grand maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart apart the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their their superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as as social equal. equal. the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is is first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and and alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and and too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in in after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in in captain’s cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with with it. the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest longest all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and and community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high high low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their their luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and and work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a a rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind mind much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some some instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious punctilious at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed, relaxed, in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in in you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated elated not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as as outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the the of pilot-cloth. pilot-cloth. though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least least to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage homage ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he he no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the the and though there were times when, owing to peculiar peculiar connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he he them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or _in _in or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means means of the paramount forms and usages of the sea. sea. perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind behind forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; himself; making use of them for other and more private ends than than were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of of brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; unmanifested; those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an an dictatorship. For be a man’s intellectual superiority what what will, it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over over men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and and always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base. base. it is, that for ever keeps God’s true princes of the Empire from from world’s hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can can to those men who become famous more through their infinite infinite to the choice hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than than their undoubted superiority over the dead level of the mass. mass. large virtue lurks in these small things when extreme political political invest them, that in some royal instances even to idiot idiot they have imparted potency. But when, as in the case of of the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire encircles an an brain; then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the the centralization. Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would would mortal indomitableness in its fullest sweep and direct swing, swing, forget a hint, incidentally so important in his art, as the one one alluded to. to. Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket Nantucket and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and and I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old old like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings trappings housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it it needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and and in the unbodied air! air! 34. The Cabin-Table. Cabin-Table. is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale pale face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord lord master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking taking observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on on smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on on upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the the you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But But catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to the the and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, “Dinner, Mr. Mr. disappears into the cabin. cabin. the last echo of his sultan’s step has died away, and Starbuck, Starbuck, first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then then rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, planks, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of of “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends the scuttle. The second second lounges about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the the brace, to see whether it will be all right with that important important he likewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner, “Dinner, Flask,” follows after his predecessors. predecessors. the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, quarter-deck, to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all all of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his his he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right right the Grand Turk’s head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching pitching cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so so at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other other by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into into cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and, and, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence, presence, the character of Abjectus, or the Slave. Slave. is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense intense of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck deck officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and and enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those those officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that that commander’s cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say say and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the the this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this this A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of of and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously, courteously, certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he he in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own own dinner-table of invited guests, that man’s unchallenged power power dominion of individual influence for the time; that man’s royalty royalty state transcends Belshazzar’s, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. greatest. has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Cæsar. Cæsar. is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding. withstanding. if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a a then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that that of sea-life just mentioned. mentioned. his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion sea-lion the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still still cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be be They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, Ahab, seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind, mind, intent eyes all fastened upon the old man’s knife, as he carved carved chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they they have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even even so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his his and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab Ahab motioned Starbuck’s plate towards him, the mate received his his as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little little if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed chewed noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like like Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor Emperor dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals meals somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old old forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief relief was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold hold And poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy boy this weary family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; beef; would have been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help help this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the the degree. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never never would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world; world; strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask Flask himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. it. of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he he the owners of the ship denied it to him, on account of its its his clear, sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so so a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and and was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! alas! a butterless man! man! thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask Flask the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly badly in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; him; yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb Stubb who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small small and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask Flask bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that that for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the the Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever ever he had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he he never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. less. what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal immortal him. Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed departed my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of of beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before before mast. There’s the fruits of promotion now; there’s the vanity of of there’s the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any any sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask’s Flask’s capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample ample was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask Flask the cabin sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before before Ahab. Ahab. Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table table the Pequod’s cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted inverted to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was was to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the the harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary residuary They made a sort of temporary servants’ hall of the high and and cabin. cabin. strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless nameless domineerings of the captain’s table, was the entire care-free care-free and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior inferior the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid afraid the sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed chewed food with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dined dined lords; they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading loading spices. Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that that fill out the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale pale was fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly seemingly out of the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he he not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an an way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, back, And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted assisted memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head head a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, hand, laying out the circle preliminary to scalping him. He was was a very nervous, shuddering sort of little fellow, this this steward; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital hospital And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, Ahab, the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages, savages, whole life was one continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after after the harpooneers furnished with all things they demanded, he he escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining, and and peep out at them through the blinds of its door, till all was was over. was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing opposing filed teeth to the Indian’s: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on on floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the the carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low low framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in in ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, abstemious, to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively comparatively mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so so baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage savage strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through through dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by by or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a a barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so enough—so so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any any of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear hear singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might might picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery crockery round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor Nor the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for for lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner, dinner, would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did did at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget forget in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been been of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! Dough-Boy! fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin napkin he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his his delight, the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to to credulous, fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jingling jingling them at every step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards. scabbards. though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived lived still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were were ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time, sleeping-time, they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters. quarters. this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale whale who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights rights ship’s cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that that else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth, truth, mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to to lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it it something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for a a only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing, thing, in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin cabin no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally nominally in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He He in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled settled And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan Logan the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the the there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old old Ahab’s soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed fed the sullen paws of its gloom! gloom! 35. The Mast-Head. Mast-Head. was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the the seamen my first mast-head came round. round. most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost almost with the vessel’s leaving her port; even though she may may fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper proper ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years’ voyage she she drawing nigh home with anything empty in her—say, an empty vial vial her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her her sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether altogether the hope of capturing one whale more. more. as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a a ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate expatiate I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old old because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them. them. though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by by tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, Asia, Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great great mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the the gale of God’s wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel Babel priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a a of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general general among archæologists, that the first pyramids were founded for for purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar peculiar formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with with long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were were to mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the the of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing bearing sight. In Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, times, built him a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole whole portion of his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the the with a tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a a stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his his by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing facing out to the last, literally died at his post. Of modern modern we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, iron, bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, gale, still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon upon any strange sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of of column of Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and and feet in the air; careless, now, who rules the decks below; below; Louis Philippe, Louis Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Great too, stands high aloft on his towering main-mast in in and like one of Hercules’ pillars, his column marks that that of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go. Admiral Admiral also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in in Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, smoke, is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is is must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor nor will answer a single hail from below, however madly invoked to to by their counsels the distracted decks upon which they gaze; gaze; it may be surmised, that their spirits penetrate through the the haze of the future, and descry what shoals and what rocks must be be shunned. may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head mast-head of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is not not is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole sole of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us, us, in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly regularly in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected erected spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by by of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house. hen-house. few years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New New who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned ready-manned nigh the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we we to the one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The The mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen seamen their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other other two hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly exceedingly the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is is There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, decks, along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while while you and between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters monsters the sea, even as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous famous at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of of sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship ship rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you you languor. For the most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime sublime invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras extras startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you into into excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt bankrupt fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what what shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more more snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable. immutable. one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years’ years’ as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the the would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be be that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion portion the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute of of approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a a localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock, hammock, hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those small small snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Your Your usual point of perch is the head of the t’ gallant-mast, where you you upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) whalemen) the t’ gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the the feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull’s horns. To To sure, in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in in shape of a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest thickest is no more of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul soul glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about about it, nor even move out of it, without running great risk of perishing perishing an ignorant pilgrim crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a a is not so much of a house as it is a mere envelope, or or skin encasing you. You cannot put a shelf or chest of of in your body, and no more can you make a convenient closet of of watch-coat. watch-coat. all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a a whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents or or called _crow’s-nests_, in which the look-outs of a Greenland Greenland are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In In fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled “A Voyage among the the in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the the of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;” in this this volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a a circumstantial account of the then recently invented invented of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet’s Sleet’s craft. He called it the _Sleet’s crow’s-nest_, in honor of of he being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all all false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children children our own names (we fathers being the original inventors and and so likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other other we may beget. In shape, the Sleet’s crow’s-nest is something something a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is is with a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head head a hard gale. Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into into through a little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or or next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker locker for umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leather leather in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and and nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his his in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a a with him (also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask flask shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or or sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannot cannot shoot at them from the deck owing to the resistance of the the but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing. Now, it it plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, does, the little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though he he enlarges upon many of these, and though he treats us to a very very account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a small small he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the errors errors from what is called the “local attraction” of all binnacle binnacle an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in in ship’s planks, and in the Glacier’s case, perhaps, to there having having so many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though though Captain is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his his “binnacle deviations,” “azimuth compass observations,” and and errors,” he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was was so much immersed in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail fail attracted occasionally towards that well replenished little little so nicely tucked in on one side of his crow’s nest, within within reach of his hand. Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and and love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it it ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, case-bottle, what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while while mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics mathematics there in that bird’s nest within three or four perches of the the pole. if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as as Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is is counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those those seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used used lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a a with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there; there; ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the the yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so so last mount to my ultimate destination. destination. me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept kept sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how how I—being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering thought-engendering could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all all standing orders, “Keep your weather eye open, and sing out out time.” time.” let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of of Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with with brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who who to ship with the Phædon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware Beware such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can be be and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes wakes the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor Nor these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery whale-fishery an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded absent-minded men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking seeking in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches perches upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, whale-ship, in moody phrase ejaculates:— ejaculates:— on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand thousand sweep over thee in vain.” vain.” often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded young young to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient sufficient in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost lost all honorable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would would not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young young have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are are what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have have their opera-glasses at home. home. thou monkey,” said a harpooneer to one of these lads, “we’ve been been now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale whale Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.” here.” they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in in far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of of unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending blending of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; identity; the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, deep, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, strange, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every every uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him him embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by by flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit spirit away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space; space; Cranmer’s sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part of of shore the round globe over. over. is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by a a rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from from inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on on move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your your comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And And at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled half-throttled you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no no to rise for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists! Pantheists! 36. The Quarter-Deck. Quarter-Deck. Ahab: Then, all._) all._) was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning morning after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the the to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that that as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in in garden. garden. his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old old upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over over like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did Did fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also, also, would see still stranger foot-prints—the foot-prints of his one one ever-pacing thought. thought. on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as his his step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his his was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the the and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought thought in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely completely him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of of outer movement. movement. mark him, Flask?” whispered Stubb; “the chick that’s in him pecks pecks shell. ’Twill soon be out.” out.” hours wore on;—Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the the with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect. aspect. drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the the and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and and one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody everybody aft. said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on on except in some extraordinary case. case. everybody aft,” repeated Ahab. “Mast-heads, there! come down!” down!” the entire ship’s company were assembled, and with curious and not not unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike unlike weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly rapidly over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew, crew, from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him him his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched half-slouched he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among among men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have have them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. feat. this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:— cried:— do ye do when ye see a whale, men?” men?” out for him!” was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed clubbed voices. cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the the animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically magnetically them. them. what do ye next, men?” men?” away, and after him!” him!” what tune is it ye pull to, men?” men?” dead whale or a stove boat!” boat!” and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the the of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began to to curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they they became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions. questions. they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his his with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, tightly, convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:— thus:— ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white white Look ye! d’ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?”—holding up a a bright coin to the sun—“it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D’ye D’ye it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul.” top-maul.” the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was was rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if if heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly lowly to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and and that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his his in him. him. the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast main-mast the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the the and with a high raised voice exclaiming: “Whosoever of ye raises raises a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; jaw; of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes holes in his starboard fluke—look ye, whosoever of ye raises me me same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!” boys!” huzza!” cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they they the act of nailing the gold to the mast. mast. a white whale, I say,” resumed Ahab, as he threw down the the “a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for for water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.” out.” this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even even intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention of of wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was was touched by some specific recollection. recollection. Ahab,” said Tashtego, “that white whale must be the same that that call Moby Dick.” Dick.” Dick?” shouted Ahab. “Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?” Tash?” he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?” said the the deliberately. deliberately. has he a curious spout, too,” said Daggoo, “very bushy, even for a a and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?” Ahab?” he have one, two, three—oh! good many iron in him hide, too, too, cried Queequeg disjointedly, “all twiske-tee be-twisk, like like faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and and as though uncorking a bottle—“like him—him—” him—him—” cried Ahab, “aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted twisted wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole whole of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the the annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a a jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye have have Dick—Moby Dick!” Dick!” Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far far eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed seemed with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. “Captain “Captain I have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick that took off off leg?” leg?” told thee that?” cried Ahab; then pausing, “Aye, Starbuck; aye, my my all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that that me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shouted shouted a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose; moose; aye! it was that accursed white whale that razed me; made a poor poor lubber of me for ever and a day!” Then tossing both arms, with with imprecations he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I’ll chase him him Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, Maelstrom, round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what ye ye shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, land, over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin fin What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do do brave.” brave.” aye!” shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the the old man: “A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for for Dick!” Dick!” bless ye,” he seemed to half sob and half shout. “God bless ye, ye, Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what’s this long long about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not not for Moby Dick?” Dick?” am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Captain if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I I here to hunt whales, not my commander’s vengeance. How many many will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Captain it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market.” market.” market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest a a lower layer. If money’s to be the measurer, man, and the the have computed their great counting-house the globe, by by it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, then, me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium _here!_” _here!_” smites his chest,” whispered Stubb, “what’s that for? methinks it it most vast, but hollow.” hollow.” on a dumb brute!” cried Starbuck, “that simply smote thee thee blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing, thing, Ahab, seems blasphemous.” blasphemous.” ye yet again—the little lower layer. All visible objects, man, man, but as pasteboard masks. But in each event—in the living act, the the deed—there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth forth mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man man strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach reach except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is is wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there’s naught beyond. beyond. ’tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous outrageous with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable inscrutable is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the the whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me me blasphemy, man; I’d strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the the do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of of play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my my man, is even that fair play. Who’s over me? Truth hath no no Take off thine eye! more intolerable than fiends’ glarings is is doltish stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted melted to anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that that unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small small I meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonder yonder cheeks of spotted tawn—living, breathing pictures painted by by sun. The Pagan leopards—the unrecking and unworshipping things, things, live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! feel! crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this this of the whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he he to think of it. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one one sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ’Tis but to to strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From From one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely surely will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a a Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! thee! but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, _that_ voices thee. thee. Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in in lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without without rebellion.” keep me!—keep us all!” murmured Starbuck, lowly. lowly. in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab Ahab not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the the nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor nor the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment moment hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted up up the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the the blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as as Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come? come? rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so so predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things things For with little external to constrain us, the innermost innermost in our being, these still drive us on. on. measure! the measure!” cried Ahab. Ahab. the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he he them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before him him the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three three stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship’s ship’s formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant instant eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, his, the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their their ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, but, only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian. Indian. and pass!” he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the the seaman. “The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short Short swallows, men; ’tis hot as Satan’s hoof. So, so; it goes goes excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the the eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this this it comes. Hand it me—here’s a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so so life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill! refill! now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and and mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there there your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some some revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, men, will yet see that—Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. sooner. it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer’t not not St. Vitus’ imp—away, thou ague! ague! ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let me me the axis.” So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the three three radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing, doing, and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from from to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some some interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the the fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own own life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, sustained, mystic aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest honest of Starbuck fell downright. downright. vain!” cried Ahab; “but, maybe, ’tis well. For did ye three but but take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, _that_ _that_ perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped dropped dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do do ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon three three honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain Disdain task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using using tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, condescension, shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your your and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!” harpooneers!” obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the the iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs barbs before him. him. me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye ye the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, cup-bearers, The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!” Forthwith, Forthwith, going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon harpoon with the fiery waters from the pewter. pewter. three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow Bestow ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha! Ha! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon upon Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the the whaleboat’s bow—Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do do hunt Moby Dick to his death!” The long, barbed steel goblets were were and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the the were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled, paled, turned, and shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished replenished went the rounds among the frantic crew; when, waving his free free to them, they all dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin. cabin. 37. Sunset. Sunset. cabin; by the stern windows; Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out_. out_. leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where’er I I The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them; them; first I pass. pass. by ever-brimming goblet’s rim, the warm waves blush like wine. wine. gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun—slow dived from noon—goes noon—goes my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then, then, crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is it it with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but but feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. ’Tis iron—that iron—that know—not gold. ’Tis split, too—that I feel; the jagged edge galls me me my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull, skull, the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight! fight! heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred spurred so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not not all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne’er enjoy. Gifted Gifted the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most most and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good Good night! (_waving his hand, he moves from the window_.) window_.) not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least; least; my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they they Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all all before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the the itself must needs be wasting! What I’ve dared, I’ve willed; and and I’ve willed, I’ll do! They think me mad—Starbuck does; but I’m I’m I am madness maddened! That wild madness that’s only calm to to itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; dismembered; I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my my Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That’s That’s than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye ye ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes! I I not say as schoolboys do to bullies—Take some one of your own own don’t pommel _me!_ No, ye’ve knocked me down, and I am up again; again; _ye_ have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags! bags! have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come come see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye ye yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed fixed is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. run. unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under under beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s an an to the iron way! way! 38. Dusk. Dusk. the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it_. it_. soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman! madman! sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But But drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I I his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill nill the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have have knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, he he be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! below! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worse worse to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe woe shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow flow The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the the gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God God wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole whole run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to to again. again. burst of revelry from the forecastle_.] forecastle_.] God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of of mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white white is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is is mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. life. through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, embattled, bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods broods his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, wake, further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills thrills through! Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! ’tis in in hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,—as wild, wild, things are forced to feed—Oh, life! ’tis now that I do feel feel latent horror in thee! but ’tis not me! that horror’s out of me! me! with the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight fight ye grim, phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye ye influences! influences! 39. First Night-Watch. Night-Watch. Fore-Top. solus, and mending a brace_.) brace_.) ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!—I’ve been thinking over it ever ever and that ha, ha’s the final consequence. Why so? Because a a the wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come what what one comfort’s always left—that unfailing comfort is, it’s all all I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor poor Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure sure old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the the might readily have prophesied it—for when I clapped my eye upon upon skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, _wise_ Stubb—that’s my title—well, title—well, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may be be but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggish waggish as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra, lirra, What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes eyes a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as as frigate’s pennant, and so am I—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh— Oh— drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting fleeting bubbles that swim, on the beaker’s brim, And break on the lips while while meeting. brave stave that—who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir—(_Aside_) sir—(_Aside_) my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.—Aye, aye, sir, sir, through with this job—coming. job—coming. 40. Midnight, Forecastle. Forecastle. AND SAILORS. SAILORS. rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, leaning, lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus_.) chorus_.) and adieu to you, Spanish ladies! Farewell and adieu to you, you, of Spain! Our captain’s commanded.— commanded.— NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for the the Take a tonic, follow me! me! and all follow._) follow._) captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A viewing of of gallant whales That blew at every strand. Oh, your tubs in your your my boys, And by your braces stand, And we’ll have one of those those whales, Hand, boys, over hand! So, be cheery, my lads! may your your never fail! While the bold harpooner is striking the whale! whale! VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward! forward! NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear, hear, Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me me the watch. I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth. So, So, (_thrusts his head down the scuttle_,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y! a-h-o-y! bells there below! Tumble up! up! SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I mark mark in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some as as to others. We sing; they sleep—aye, lie down there, like like butts. At ’em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail hail through it. Tell ’em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell ’em ’em the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment. judgment. the way—_that’s_ it; thy throat ain’t spoiled with eating eating butter. butter. SAILOR. Hist, boys! let’s have a jig or two before we ride to to in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand Stand all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine! tambourine! (_Sulky and sleepy._) Don’t know where it is. is. SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men, I I merry’s the word; hurrah! Damn me, won’t you dance? Form, now, now, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! yourselves! legs! legs! SAILOR. I don’t like your floor, maty; it’s too springy to my my I’m used to ice-floors. I’m sorry to throw cold water on the the but excuse me. me. SAILOR. Me too; where’s your girls? Who but a fool would take take left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d’ye do? Partners! Partners! must have partners! partners! SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!—then I’ll hop with ye; yea, yea, grasshopper! grasshopper! SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there’s plenty more of us. us. corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here here the music; now for it! it! SAILOR. (_Ascending, and pitching the tambourine up the the Here you are, Pip; and there’s the windlass-bitts; up you you Now, boys! (_The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go go some sleep or lie among the coils of rigging. Oaths a-plenty_.) a-plenty_.) SAILOR. (_Dancing_) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig dig stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers! jinglers! Jinglers, you say?—there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so. so. SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of of thyself. SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through through Split jibs! tear yourselves! yourselves! (_Quietly smoking._) That’s a white man; he calls that fun: fun: I save my sweat. sweat. MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what what are dancing over. I’ll dance over your grave, I will—that’s the the threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round round O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled green-skulled Well, well; belike the whole world’s a ball, as you scholars scholars it; and so ’tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads, lads, young; I was once. once. NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!—whew! this is worse than pulling after after in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash. Tash. cease dancing, and gather in clusters. Meantime the sky sky wind rises_.) rises_.) SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born, sky-born, Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva! Seeva! SAILOR. (_Reclining and shaking his cap_.) It’s the waves—the waves—the caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake their tassels soon. Now Now all the waves were women, then I’d go drown, and chassee with with evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not match match those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the the arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes. grapes. SAILOR. (_Reclining_.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet lad—fleet of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip! lip! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye, ye, come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (_Nudging_.) (_Nudging_.) SAILOR. (_Reclining on a mat_.) Hail, holy nakedness of our our girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I I rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven woven the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn worn wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear the change! How then, then, so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from from peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the the blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (_Leaps to his his feet_.) SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing ’gainst the side! Stand Stand for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell pell-mell go lunging presently. presently. SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou thou Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He’s no more more than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic Baltic storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! cakes! NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahab Ahab him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a a with a pistol—fire your ship right into it! it! SAILOR. Blood! but that old man’s a grand old cove! We are the the to hunt him up his whale! whale! Aye! aye! aye! MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort sort tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there’s none none the crew’s cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort sort weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at at Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there’s another another the sky—lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black. black. What of that? Who’s afraid of black’s afraid of me! I’m I’m out of it! it! SAILOR. (_Aside_.) He wants to bully, ah!—the old grudge makes makes touchy (_Advancing_.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable undeniable side of mankind—devilish dark at that. No offence. offence. (_grimly_). None. None. JAGO’S SAILOR. That Spaniard’s mad or drunk. But that can’t be, or or in his one case our old Mogul’s fire-waters are somewhat long in in working. NANTUCKET SAILOR. What’s that I saw—lightning? Yes. Yes. SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth. teeth. (_springing_). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver! liver! SAILOR (_meeting him_). Knife thee heartily! big frame, small small spirit! A row! a row! a row! row! (_with a whiff_). A row a’low, and a row aloft—Gods and and brawlers! Humph! Humph! SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! row! in with ye! ye! SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring! ring! MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring ring struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad’st mad’st the ring? ring? VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in in sails! Stand by to reef topsails! topsails! The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (_They scatter_.) scatter_.) (_shrinking under the windlass_). Jollies? Lord help such jollies! jollies! crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower, lower, here comes the royal yard! It’s worse than being in the whirled whirled the last day of the year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now? now? there they go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to to they’re on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a a But those chaps there are worse yet—they are your white white they. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I I all their chat just now, and the white whale—shirr! shirr!—but shirr!—but of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over like like tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ’em in to hunt him! Oh, Oh, big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on on small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no no to feel fear! fear! 41. Moby Dick. Dick. Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest; rest; oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more more I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A A mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud feud mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous murderous against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of of and revenge. revenge. some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied, unaccompanied, White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly mostly by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of of existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen seen while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given given to him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of of the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire entire circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest quest solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth twelvemonth more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any any the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity irregularity the times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances, circumstances, and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole whole whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings tidings Moby Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels vessels to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or or a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity, malignity, whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had had escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair unfair I say, that the whale in question must have been no other other Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked marked various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and and in the monster attacked; therefore it was, that those who by by ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, perhaps, the most part, were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, bred, as it were, to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, large, to the individual cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous disastrous between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly popularly regarded. as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance chance sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one one them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any any whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue ensue these assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken broken or devouring amputations—but fatal to the last degree of of those repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and and their terrors upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake shake fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the story of the White White had eventually come. come. did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more more the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do do rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising surprising events,—as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in in life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors rumors wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. to. as the sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery fishery every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and and of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only only whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and and hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, they they by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever is is astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye its its marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such such waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a a shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or or hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such latitudes and and pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is is by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many many mighty birth. birth. wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over over widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in in end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and and fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which which invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything anything visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally finally that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White White few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his his jaw. there were still other and more vital practical influences at work. work. even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm Sperm as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the the died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are are this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous courageous in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would would from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or or decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there there plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not not under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered encountered Sperm Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is is to the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; North; on their hatches, these men will hearken with a childish childish interest and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern Southern Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale Whale more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows prows stem him. him. as if the now tested reality of his might had in former legendary legendary thrown its shadow before it; we find some book book and Povelson—declaring the Sperm Whale not only to to a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be be incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. blood. even down to so late a time as Cuvier’s, were these or almost almost impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron Baron affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks (sharks are “struck with the most lively terrors,” and “often in the the of their flight dash themselves against the rocks with with violence as to cause instantaneous death.” And however the general general in the fishery may amend such reports as these; yet in in full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the the belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their their revived in the minds of the hunters. hunters. that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few few the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days days the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long long Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring daring such men protesting that although other leviathans might be be pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition apparition the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would be be to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are are remarkable documents that may be consulted. consulted. some there were, who even in the face of these things things ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who, who, only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the the details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious superstitious were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if if offered. of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked linked the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined, was was unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had had been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same same of time. time. credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit conceit without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as as secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, divulged, to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Sperm when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to to pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious curious contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning concerning mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he he himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant distant points. is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and and well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, Scoresby, some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose whose have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland Greenland Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has has declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could could have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been been by some whalemen, that the Nor’ West Passage, so long a a to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the the living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old old of the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there there said to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the the and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain fountain Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Holy by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost almost equalled by the realities of the whalemen. whalemen. into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and and that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had had alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen whalemen go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not not ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in in that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he he still swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to to thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for for in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied unsullied would once more be seen. seen. even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in in earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike strike imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his his bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, whales, as was elsewhere thrown out—a peculiar snow-white wrinkled wrinkled and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent prominent the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he he his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him. him. rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with the the shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive distinctive of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by by vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue blue leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden golden gleamings. was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his his lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural natural as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to to accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. assaults. than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than than aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, pursuers, every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known known turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their their to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship. ship. several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar similar however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in in fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale’s Whale’s aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death death he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an an agent. agent. then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of of more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed chewed and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the the curds of the whale’s direful wrath into the serene, exasperating exasperating that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal. bridal. three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the the one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had had at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly blindly with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the the That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweeping sweeping sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away away leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, Turk, hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming seeming Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that that fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness vindictiveness the whale, all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness morbidness at last came to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but but his intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam swam him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious malicious which some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left left on with half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity malignity has been from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern modern ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of of east reverenced in their statue devil;—Ahab did not fall down and and it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the the white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All All most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; things; truth with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the the all the subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy crazy were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Moby He piled upon the whale’s white hump the sum of all the general general and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if if chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart’s shell upon it. it. is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at at precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the the knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, passionate, animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he he but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more. more. when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long long of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in in hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Patagonian then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one one and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on on homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania monomania him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervals intervals the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a a yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was was intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to to him fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a a he swung to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when when into more sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun’sails stun’sails floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, appearances, old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn Horn and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and and even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale, pale, issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God the the madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self, self, on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing. thing. you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some some subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly deepeningly like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows flows but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in his his monomania, not one jot of Ahab’s broad madness had been been behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural natural had perished. That before living agent, now became the living living If such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy lunacy his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its its cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost lost strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold fold potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any one one object. object. is much; yet Ahab’s larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted. unhinted. vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding Winding down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where where here stand—however grand and wonderful, now quit it;—and take your your ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; Thermes; far beneath the fantastic towers of man’s upper earth, his root root grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique antique beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken broken the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he he sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of of Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that that sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young young royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old old come. come. in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means means sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or or or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long long in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling dissembling only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate. determinate. so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when when ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him him than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the the casualty which had overtaken him. him. report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly popularly to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which which afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the the voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely, unlikely, far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on on of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent prudent were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons reasons was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full full rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and and without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable incurable such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart dart iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes. brutes. if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that, that, such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on on underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is, is, with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in in Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one one and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one one his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking lurking him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have have the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on on cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the the He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural supernatural revenge. then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses curses Job’s whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made made of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebled enfeebled by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in in the invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in in and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so so seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality fatality help him to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so so responded to the old man’s ire—by what evil magic their their were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the the Whale as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to to the White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious unconscious also, in some dim, unsuspected way, he might have have the gliding great demon of the seas of life,—all this to to would be to dive deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterranean subterranean that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his shaft by by ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick? Who does not feel the the arm drag? What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand stand For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the the but while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see see in that brute but the deadliest ill. ill. 42. The Whiteness of the Whale. Whale. the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he he to me, as yet remains unsaid. unsaid. from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which which not but occasionally awaken in any man’s soul some alarm, there there another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, him, at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; rest; yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost almost of putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of of whale that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to to myself here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I I else all these chapters might be naught. naught. in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, beauty, if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles, marbles, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way way a certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, barbaric, old kings of Pegu placing the title “Lord of the White Elephants” Elephants” all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the the kings of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the the standard; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a a charger; and the great Austrian Empire, Cæsarian, heir to to Rome, having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; hue; though this pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, itself, the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and and besides, all this, whiteness has been even made significant of of for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and and in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is is the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides, brides, benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of of white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in in climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of of Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn drawn milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most most religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness spotlessness power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame flame held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, mythologies, Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and and to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred sacred Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, that that faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send send the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and and directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests priests the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, tunic, beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish Romish white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of of Lord; though in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to to redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white white the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there there like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, with with is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, there yet lurks an an something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more more panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood. blood. elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when when from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object object in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds. bounds. the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the the what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the the horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which which such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, terrific, the dumb gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged fierce-fanged in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded white-shrouded or shark.* shark.* reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who who fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the the separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable intolerable of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, hideousness, might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the the ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the the of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing together together such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us us so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true; true; were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified intensified terror. for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that that when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the the quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly vividly by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish Romish for the dead begins with “Requiem eternam” (eternal rest), whence whence denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. music. in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, shark, the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him _Requin_. _Requin_. thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual spiritual and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all all Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great, great, laureate, Nature.* Nature.* remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged prolonged in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch watch I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the the hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and and a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its its archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous Wondrous and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered uttered as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through its its strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took took of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white white was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled exiled I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of of Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only only the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and and asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney! Goney! had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious glorious is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I I that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no no could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with with mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon upon deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to to an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a a brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet. poet. assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird bird lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in in that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey grey and these I have frequently seen, but never with such such as when I beheld the Antarctic fowl. fowl. how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will will with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea. sea. last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern leathern round its neck, with the ship’s time and place; and then letting letting escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was was off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, wing-folding, invoking, and adoring cherubim! cherubim! famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the the Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, charger, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a a monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the the Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those those were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At At flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which which evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his his the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more more than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A A imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western western which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the the of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god, god, and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid amid aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly endlessly it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his his subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White White gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through through cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to to bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. awe. can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this this horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so so him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it it though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain certain terror. terror. there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that that and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and and Albatross. is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks shocks eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It is is whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he he The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive substantive yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him him strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be be so? in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not not less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this this attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the the ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White White Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice malice so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of of passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their their the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the the market-place! in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all all fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It It well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of of dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering lingering as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of of in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And And that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the the in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail fail throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in in milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that that the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on on pallid horse. horse. in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious gracious he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest profoundest significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul. soul. though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to to for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then, by by citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of of for the time either wholly or in great part stripped stripped all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful, fearful, nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however however we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us us the hidden cause we seek? seek? us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, subtlety, without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And And doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about about be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were were conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able able recall them now. now. to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely loosely with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare bare of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, dreary, processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded hooded new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of of Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White White or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul? soul? what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and and (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower Tower London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an an American, than those other storied structures, its its Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer sublimer the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar peculiar comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare bare of that name, while the thought of Virginia’s Blue Ridge is is of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all all and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a a over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with with thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, waves, by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a a unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in in the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “the tall pale man” man” the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides glides the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than than the whooping imps of the Blocksburg? Blocksburg? is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling cathedral-toppling nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the the of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide wide of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop adroop canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of of lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;—it cards;—it not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest, strangest, city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and and is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro, Pizarro, whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful cheerful of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid rigid of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions. distortions. know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness whiteness not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of of otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there there of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind mind solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when when under any form at all approaching to muteness or or What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be be elucidated by the following examples. examples. The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if if night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels feels enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under under similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to to his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness—as if if encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming swimming him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded shrouded of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in in the lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm helm both go down; he never rests till blue water is under him again. again. where is the mariner who will tell thee, “Sir, it was not so much much fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous hideous that so stirred me?” me?” To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the the Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the the fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast vast and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to to oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the the of the West, who with comparative indifference views an an prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig twig break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding beholding scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal infernal of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and and shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his his views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with with lean ice monuments and splintered crosses. crosses. thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is is a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a a Ishmael. Ishmael. me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of of far removed from all beasts of prey—why is it that upon the the day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that that cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness—why muskiness—why he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in in of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of of creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange strange he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the the of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, colt, the black bisons of distant Oregon? Oregon? but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the the of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from from still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring goring herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the the which this instant they may be trampling into dust. dust. then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of of festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the the snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking shaking that buffalo robe to the frightened colt! colt! neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic mystic gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere somewhere things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible visible seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in in fright. not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and and why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange strange far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once the most most symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the the Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent agent things the most appalling to mankind. mankind. it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids voids immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the the of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky milky Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as as visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all all is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, blankness, of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows—a colourless, all-colour all-colour atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theory theory the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues—every stately stately lovely emblazoning—the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea, yea, the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of of girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent inherent substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified deified absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover cover but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and and that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her her the great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless colorless itself, and if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all all even tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge—pondering all all the palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful wilful in Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring colouring upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at at monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And And all these things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at at fiery hunt? hunt? 43. Hark! Hark! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?” Cabaco?” was the middle-watch: a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in in cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to to scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the the to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the the precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak speak rustle their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the the silence, only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the the hum of the unceasingly advancing keel. keel. was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, cordon, post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a a the words above. above. did you hear that noise, Cabaco?” Cabaco?” the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d’ye mean?” mean?” it is again—under the hatches—don’t you hear it—a cough—it cough—it like a cough.” cough.” be damned! Pass along that return bucket.” bucket.” again—there it is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turning turning now!” now!” have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuits biscuits eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to the the bucket!” what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.” ears.” you are the chap, ain’t ye, that heard the hum of the old old knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’re you’re chap.” chap.” away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody somebody in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I I our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell tell one morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the the wind.” the bucket!” bucket!” 44. The Chart. Chart. you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that that place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his his with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the the and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea sea spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating seating before it, you would have seen him intently study the various various and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady steady trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At At he would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein wherein set down the seasons and places in which, on various former former of various ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen. seen. thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his his continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever ever shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till till almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and and on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing tracing and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead. forehead. it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his his Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they were were out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and and were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before before Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to to more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul. soul. to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, leviathans, might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary solitary in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it seem seem Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby thereby the driftings of the sperm whale’s food; and, also, calling calling mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular particular could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to to concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that that in search of his prey. prey. assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the the whale’s resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe believe could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; world; the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully carefully then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to to in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the the of swallows. On this hint, attempts have been made to construct construct migratory charts of the sperm whale.* whale.* the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by by official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National National Washington, April 16th, 1851. By that circular, it it that precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and and of it are presented in the circular. “This chart divides the the into districts of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of of perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve twelve for the twelve months; and horizontally through each of which which are three lines; one to show the number of days that have have spent in each month in every district, and the two others to to the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been been seen.” when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the the whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rather, secret secret from the Deity—mostly swim in _veins_, as they are called; called; their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating undeviating that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with one one of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the the taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel, parallel, though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own own straight wake, yet the arbitrary _vein_ in which at these these he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width width or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but but exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship’s mast-heads, when when gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at at seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating migrating may with great confidence be looked for. for. hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate separate could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing crossing widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his his so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be be without prospect of a meeting. meeting. was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his his but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality, reality, Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons seasons particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the the which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, year, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were were there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and and instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In In the same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the the and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that that Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what what called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on on Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to to either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she she infallibly encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding feeding where he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed seemed his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his his of prolonged abode. And where Ahab’s chances of accomplishing accomplishing object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to to way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a a set time or place were attained, when all possibilities possibilities become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every every the next thing to a certainty. That particular set time and and were conjoined in the one technical phrase—the phrase—the For there and then, for several consecutive years, years, Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for for as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted predicted in any one sign of the Zodiac. There it was, too, that most of of deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the the were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot spot the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his his But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering unloitering with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering unfaltering he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one one fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those those nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his his heart as to postpone all intervening quest. quest. the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the the No possible endeavor then could enable her her to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and and running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial equatorial in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next next season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod’s sailing had, had, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very very of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and and days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead instead impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; hunt; by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote remote his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow brow the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any any waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Pampas, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, Simoon, blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the the circumnavigating wake. wake. granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it it but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one one whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of of recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti Mufti the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar peculiar brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be be And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to to as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he he throw himself back in reveries—tallied him, and shall he escape? escape? broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep’s ear! ear! here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a a and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air air the deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what what of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one one revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes wakes his own bloody nails in his palms. palms. when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid vivid of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through through day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them them and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing throbbing his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was was the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up up its base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked forked and lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap leap among them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild wild would be heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would would from his state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on on Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms symptoms some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the the tokens of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the the unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab Ahab had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to to from it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living living or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated dissociated the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its its vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the the contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it it no longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless unless with the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab’s Ahab’s yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme supreme that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced forced against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent independent of its own. Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the common common to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the the and unfathered birth. Therefore, the tormented spirit that that out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, room, for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, being, ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and and a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts thoughts created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus thus him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that that the very creature he creates. creates. 45. The Affidavit. Affidavit. far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed, indeed, indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious curious in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in in earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in this this but the leading matter of it requires to be still further and and familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood, understood, moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of of entire subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity verity the main points of this affair. affair. care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be be to produce the desired impression by separate citations of of practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from from citations, I take it—the conclusion aimed at will naturally naturally of itself. itself. I have personally known three instances where a whale, after after a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an an (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by the the hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same same cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where where years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I I it may have been something more than that; the man who darted darted happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to to went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far far the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years, years, endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, with with the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of of regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been been its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, globe, with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose. purpose. man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the the I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this; this; is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second second saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, them, taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so so out that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the the time distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the the eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I say say years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three three then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard heard many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there there no good ground to impeach. impeach. It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant ignorant world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable memorable instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at at times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became became marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily bodily as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar peculiar that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his his by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly peculiarly oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences experiences the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about about a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most most were content to recognise him by merely touching their their when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea, sea, seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some some devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they they distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they they the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump thump their presumption. presumption. not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual individual you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he he in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death, death, he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions distinctions a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cæsar. Was it not not O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so so did’st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was was seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Zealand thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the the of the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, Japan, lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white snow-white against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, whale, like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In In prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of of History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar. scholar. this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various various creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were were gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed killed valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that that object as much in view, as in setting out through the the Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture capture notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the the King Philip. Philip. do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make make of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in in form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the the story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For For is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full full much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of of plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without some some touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the the they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still still and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory. allegory. Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general general of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid vivid of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur. recur. reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters disasters deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at at however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you you that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by by whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to to bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan—do you suppose that that poor fellow’s name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will will to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very very between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what what be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I I you that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, Pacific, many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which which had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that that each lost a boat’s crew. For God’s sake, be economical with your your and candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of of blood was spilled for it. it. People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale whale an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that that narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold two-fold they have significantly complimented me upon my my when, I declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of of facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues of of Egypt. fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon upon entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm Sperm is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously judiciously as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy, destroy, sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale _has_ done it. it. In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket, Nantucket, cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her her and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of of whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping escaping the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the the Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that that less than “ten minutes” she settled down and fell over. Not a a plank of her has been seen since. After the severest severest part of the crew reached the land in their boats. Being Being home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific Pacific command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon upon rocks and breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly utterly and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. since. this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen seen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; tragedy; have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his his and all this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.* catastrophe.* following are extracts from Chace’s narrative: “Every fact seemed seemed warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which which his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at at short interval between them, both of which, according to their their were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made made and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the the to effect which, the exact manœuvres which he made were were His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated indicated and fury. He came directly from the shoal which we had just just entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, as as fired with revenge for their sufferings.” Again: “At all events, the the circumstances taken together, all happening before my own eyes, eyes, producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided, decided, mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which which I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am am in my opinion.” opinion.” are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during a a night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any any shore. “The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the the of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon upon rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful fearful seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s thought; the the looking wreck, and _the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale_, whale_, engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance.” appearance.” another place—p. 45,—he speaks of “_the mysterious and mortal attack attack the animal_.” animal_.” The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 1807 lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic authentic of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, encounter, from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual casual to it. it. Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J——, then then an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be be with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in in harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales, whales, Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength strength to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily peremptorily for example, that any whale could so smite his stout stout as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very Very but there is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set set in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on on way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’ moments’ business with him. That business consisted in fetching the the craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made made for the nearest port to heave down and repair. I am not not but I consider the Commodore’s interview with that whale whale providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a a fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense. nonsense. will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstance circumstance point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you you know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern’s Krusenstern’s Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century. century. Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter: chapter: the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day day were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was was clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to to on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was was till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. up. uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship ship lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived perceived any one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full full was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its its against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, danger, this gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three three at least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell fell while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, deck, that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw saw monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain Captain applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the the had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very very it had escaped entirely uninjured.” uninjured.” the Captain D’Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in in is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual unusual as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of of near Boston. I have the honor of being a nephew of his. I I particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff. Langsdorff. substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large large a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my my after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home. home. that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, full, of honest wonders—the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient ancient old chums—I found a little matter set down so like that just just from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a a example, if such be needed. needed. it seems, was on his way to “John Ferdinando,” as he calls the the Juan Fernandes. “In our way thither,” he says, “about four four in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty fifty from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which which our men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where where were or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. death. indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for for the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was was little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground. * * * * * The suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their their and several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. hammocks. Davis, who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his his Lionel then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and and to substantiate the imputation by stating that a great great somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief mischief the Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in the the of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all all by an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath. beneath. might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to to of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more more one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing assailing back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long long all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship ship Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let let say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a a sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and and there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a a walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if if sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, acts, so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of of to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent eloquent of his character, that upon being attacked he will will open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for for consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more more a concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one, one, which you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous marvellous in this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but but these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; ages; that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon—Verily there is is new under the sun. sun. the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate magistrate Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and and general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own own a work every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he he always been considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating unexaggerating except in some one or two particulars, not at all affecting affecting matter presently to be mentioned. mentioned. in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term term his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured captured the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed destroyed at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty fifty A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be be Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise species species sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as as as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly strongly to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long long I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the the and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am am that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the the constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious gregarious But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in in times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the the whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that on on Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found the the of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes passes the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route, route, out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis. Propontis. the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar peculiar called _brit_ is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. whale. I have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm sperm or cuttle-fish—lurks at the bottom of that sea, because because creatures, but by no means the largest of that sort, have been been at its surface. If, then, you properly put these statements statements and reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that, that, to all human reasoning, Procopius’s sea-monster, that for for a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all all have been a sperm whale. whale. 46. Surmises. Surmises. consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his his and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Moby though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that that passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and and habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogether altogether abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if if were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more more with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even even his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the the Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all all whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he he the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would would to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be be exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, which, not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling ruling yet were by no means incapable of swaying him. him. accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in in shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew, knew, example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was was Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual spiritual any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual intellectual for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in in sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck’s body and Starbuck’s coerced coerced were Ahab’s, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck’s brain; brain; he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred abhorred captain’s quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself himself it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would would ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck Starbuck ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his his leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial circumstantial were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle subtle of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly significantly than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing foreseeing for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that that imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that the the terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure obscure (for few men’s courage is proof against protracted protracted unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night night his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of of Moby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had had the announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are are or less capricious and unreliable—they live in the varying outer outer and they inhale its fickleness—and when retained for any any remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and and in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary temporary and employments should intervene and hold them healthily healthily for the final dash. dash. was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotion emotion disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent. evanescent. permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought thought is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the the of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even even a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for for love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food food their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and and Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two two miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without without burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious pious by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final final romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would have have from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of of hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some some go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this this quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would would cashier Ahab. Ahab. was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related related Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps perhaps prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the the voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he he indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of of and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew crew so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further further to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From From the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible possible of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must must course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection protection only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand, hand, by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute minute influence which it was possible for his crew to be be to. to. all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be be developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good good continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod’s Pequod’s observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force force to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general general of his profession. profession. all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three three and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit omit even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward. reward. 47. The Mat-Maker. Mat-Maker. was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging lounging the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters. waters. and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat, sword-mat, an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet yet preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie reverie in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own own self. self. was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I I passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between the the yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as as standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword sword the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly carelessly unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess dreaminess there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only only by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as as this were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically mechanically and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of of warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging unchanging and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise crosswise of other threads with its own. This warp seemed seemed and here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle shuttle weave my own destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime, Meantime, impulsive, indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof woof or crookedly, or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; be; by this difference in the concluding blow producing a corresponding corresponding in the final aspect of the completed fabric; this savage’s savage’s thought I, which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and and this easy, indifferent sword must be chance—aye, chance, free free and necessity—nowise incompatible—all interweavingly working working The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its its course—its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending tending that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; threads; chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of of and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though though prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the the featuring blow at events. events. we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so so long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball of of will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds clouds that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees cross-trees that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly eagerly his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden sudden he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that that moment perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of of look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those those could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous marvellous as from Tashtego the Indian’s. Indian’s. he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and and peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some some or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries cries their coming. coming. she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!” blows!” “Where-away?” the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!” them!” all was commotion. commotion. Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and and uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from from tribes of his genus. genus. go flukes!” was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales whales disappeared. steward!” cried Ahab. “Time! time!” time!” hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact exact to Ahab. Ahab. ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling rolling it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to to we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of of bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale Whale sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while while beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in in opposite quarter—this deceitfulness of his could not now be in in for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by by had been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our our One of the men selected for shipkeepers—that is, those not not to the boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the the head. The sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the the tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the the was backed, and the three boats swung over the sea like three three baskets over high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager eager with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly expectantly on the gunwale. So look the long line of man-of-war’s men about about throw themselves on board an enemy’s ship. ship. at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took took eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was was by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air. air. 48. The First Lowering. Lowering. phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side side the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the the and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always always deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the the on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The The that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white white evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese Chinese of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black black of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness ebonness a glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and and round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the the of this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion complexion to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;—a race race for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white white supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents agents the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose suppose be elsewhere. elsewhere. yet the wondering ship’s company were gazing upon these these Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, head, ready there, Fedallah?” Fedallah?” was the half-hissed reply. reply. away then; d’ye hear?” shouting across the deck. “Lower away away I say.” say.” was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the the sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with with wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a a off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the the goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship’s side into the tossed tossed below. below. had they pulled out from under the ship’s lee, when a fourth fourth coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and and the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the the loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves themselves so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all their their again riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of of other boats obeyed not the command. command. Ahab?—” said Starbuck. Starbuck. yourselves,” cried Ahab; “give way, all four boats. Thou, Thou, pull out more to leeward!” leeward!” aye, sir,” cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his his steering oar. “Lay back!” addressing his crew. crew. again! There she blows right ahead, boys!—lay boys!—lay back!” heed yonder yellow boys, Archy.” Archy.” I don’t mind ’em, sir,” said Archy; “I knew it all before now. now. I hear ’em in the hold? And didn’t I tell Cabaco here of it? it? say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.” Flask.” pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little little drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom whom showed signs of uneasiness. “Why don’t you break your backbones, backbones, boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They They only five more hands come to help us—never mind from where—the more more merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone—devils are are fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that’s the stroke for a a pounds; that’s the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah for the the cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men—all hearts alive! alive! easy; don’t be in a hurry—don’t be in a hurry. Why don’t you snap snap oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so, so, softly! That’s it—that’s it! long and strong. Give way way give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are are asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull, pull, ye? pull, won’t ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes ginger-cakes ye pull?—pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out! out! whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; “every mother’s mother’s of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. teeth. it—that’s it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my my Start her—start her, my silver-spoons! Start her, her, marling-spikes!” exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had had a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in in the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this this of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions passions his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chief chief He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a a so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so so merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear hear queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling pulling the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy easy indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so so gaped—open-mouthed at times—that the mere sight of such a a commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon upon crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists, humorists, jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all all on their guard in the matter of obeying them. them. obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely obliquely Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were were near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate. mate. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye ye please!” returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he he still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set set a flint from Stubb’s. Stubb’s. think ye of those yellow boys, sir!” sir!” on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, strong, in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: “A sad sad Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, mind, Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what what (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Mr. and that’s what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm’s the the This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand.” hand.” aye, I thought as much,” soliloquized Stubb, when the boats boats “as soon as I clapt eye on ’em, I thought so. Aye, and that’s that’s he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long long They were hidden down there. The White Whale’s at the bottom bottom it. Well, well, so be it! Can’t be helped! All right! Give way, men! men! ain’t the White Whale to-day! Give way!” way!” the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant instant the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably unreasonably a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship’s ship’s but Archy’s fancied discovery having some time previous got got among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in some some measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge edge their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb’s confident way of of for their appearance, they were for the time freed from from surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room room all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab’s precise agency in in matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the the shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the the Nantucket dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the the Elijah. Elijah. Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the the to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a a bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger tiger creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five five they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which which started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst burst out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen seen the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and and his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the the clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery watery while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a a thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance counterbalance tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar oar in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All All once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained remained while the boat’s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat Boat crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in in rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily bodily into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the the though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it. it. man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck. “Thou, Queequeg, Queequeg, up!” up!” springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage savage erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the the where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme extreme of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with with gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing balancing to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently silently the vast blue eye of the sea. sea. very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still; still; commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a a sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above above level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the the line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man’s hand, hand, standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the the of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little little was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post King-Post full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead loggerhead of his did by no means satisfy King-Post. King-Post. can’t see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to to that.” this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way, way, slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty lofty for a pedestal. pedestal. a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?” mount?” I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you you feet taller.” taller.” planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the the the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to to foot, and then putting Flask’s hand on his hearse-plumed head head bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous dexterous landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was was now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a a to lean against and steady himself by. by. any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous wondrous of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect erect in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously riotously and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily giddily upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the the of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more more for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, easy, of, barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the the harmoniously rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired flaxen-haired seemed a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. rider. truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now now then stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby thereby to the negro’s lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity Vanity the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her her and her seasons for that. that. Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing far-gazing The whales might have made one of their regular soundings, soundings, a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case, case, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the the interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband, hatband, he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammed rammed the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his his across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his his whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed fixed suddenly dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat, seat, out in a quick phrensy of hurry, “Down, down all, and give give they are!” are!” a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been been at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white white and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and and blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white white billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it it like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this this waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of of also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other other the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their forerunning forerunning and detached flying outriders. outriders. four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled troubled and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as as mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the the hills. pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but but concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance glance his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two two needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much much his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the the of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his his whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty. entreaty. different the loud little King-Post. “Sing out and say something, something, hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on on black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I’ll sign over to you you Martha’s Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, children, Lay me on—lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring staring See! see that white water!” And so shouting, he pulled his hat hat his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, up, it far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and and in the boat’s stern like a crazed colt from the prairie. prairie. at that chap now,” philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his his short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a a distance, followed after—“He’s got fits, that Flask has. Fits? Fits? give him fits—that’s the very word—pitch fits into ’em. Merrily, Merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;—merry’s the word. word. babes—pull, sucklings—pull, all. But what the devil are you you about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and and pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your your in two—that’s all. Take it easy—why don’t ye take it easy, I I and burst all your livers and lungs!” lungs!” what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of of were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed blessed of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious audacious may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of of murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey. prey. all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of of to “that whale,” as he called the fictitious monster which he he to be incessantly tantalizing his boat’s bow with its its allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that that would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look look the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must must out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage usage that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but but in these critical moments. moments. was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the the sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled rolled the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless boundless the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip tip an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost almost threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the the glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the the of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other other these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and and shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the the Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like like wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling. thrilling. the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever fever of his first battle; not the dead man’s ghost encountering the the unknown phantom in the other world;—neither of these can feel feel and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first first finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the the sperm whale. whale. dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and and visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows cloud-shadows upon the sea. The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted tilted to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes. wakes. boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales whales dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still still wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through through water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to to being torn from the row-locks. row-locks. we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither neither nor boat to be seen. seen. way, men,” whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the the of his sail; “there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall squall There’s white water again!—close to! Spring!” Spring!” after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted denoted the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when when a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: “Stand up!” and and harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet. feet. not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril peril close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance countenance the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent imminent had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of of elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still still through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like like erected crests of enraged serpents. serpents. his hump. _There_, _there_, give it to him!” whispered whispered Starbuck. short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of of Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from from while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail sail and exploded; a gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; by; rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole whole were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the the curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all all together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped. escaped. completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round round we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale, gunwale, back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, sea, water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing gazing the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the the of the ocean. ocean. wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together; together; whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white white upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal immortal these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar roar the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those those in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew grew with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen. seen. rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were were as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers. life-preservers. cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many many Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then then it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the the of this forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding up up imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, There, he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly hopelessly up hope in the midst of despair. despair. drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat, boat, lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over over sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat. boat. Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear. ear. all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled muffled the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were were parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the the as the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us us a distance of not much more than its length. length. on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it it and gaped beneath the ship’s bows like a chip at the base of a a and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no no till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were were against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely safely on board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut cut from their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship ship given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon upon token of our perishing,—an oar or a lance pole. pole. 49. The Hyena. Hyena. are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed mixed we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast vast joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more more suspects that the joke is at nobody’s expense but his own. own. nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He He down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all all things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich ostrich potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for for difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril peril life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, sly, hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen unseen unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am am of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; tribulation; comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before before have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part part the general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to to this free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with with I now regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White White its object. object. said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the the and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the the “Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often often Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he he me to understand that such things did often happen. happen. Stubb,” said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his his was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; “Mr. Stubb, I I I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief chief Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose suppose that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy foggy is the height of a whaleman’s discretion?” discretion?” I’ve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off off Horn.” Horn.” Flask,” said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing standing by; “you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will you you me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, Flask, an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into into jaws?” jaws?” you twist that smaller?” said Flask. “Yes, that’s the law. I I like to see a boat’s crew backing water up to a whale face face Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind mind that!” then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement statement the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings capsizings the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters of of occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the the critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign resign life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellow fellow at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of of the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that that particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be be to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a a and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for for great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to to uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering in in a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking taking things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make make rough draft of my will. “Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall be be lawyer, executor, and legatee.” legatee.” may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at at last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world world fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical nautical that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded concluded the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled rolled from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as as as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a a clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might might I survived myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest. chest. looked round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a a conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault. vault. then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock, frock, goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the the fetch the hindmost. hindmost. 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah. Fedallah. would have thought it, Flask!” cried Stubb; “if I had but one leg leg would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole plug-hole my timber toe. Oh! he’s a wonderful old man!” man!” don’t think it so strange, after all, on that account,” said Flask. Flask. his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing. thing. would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other other you know.” know.” don’t know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.” kneel.” whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering considering paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it it right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active active of the chase. So Tamerlane’s soldiers often argued with tears in in eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried carried the thickest of the fight. fight. with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering that that two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; danger; that the pursuit of whales is always under great and and difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then then a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any maimed maimed to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the the of the Pequod must have plainly thought not. not. well knew that although his friends at home would think little of of entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of of chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving giving orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually actually to him as a regular headsman in the hunt—above all for for Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat’s boat’s he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads heads the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat’s boat’s from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head. head. he had taken private measures of his own touching all that that Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little little it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of of all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the the for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then then bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his his hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even even cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is is out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was was in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra extra of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better better the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety anxiety evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it it sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracing bracing knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was was how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee knee in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the the chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a a there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest and and at the time. But almost everybody supposed that this this preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to to ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his his to hunt that mortal monster in person. But such a supposition supposition by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat’s crew crew assigned to that boat. boat. with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned waned for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such such odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown unknown and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of of and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway castaway found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, wreck, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that that himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin cabin chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable unsubduable in the forecastle. forecastle. be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate subordinate soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were were distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a a mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like like by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be be with Ahab’s peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort sort a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even even over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain an an air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as as domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their their and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide glide the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles isles the east of the continent—those insulated, immemorial, unalterable unalterable which even in these modern days still preserve much of the the aboriginalness of earth’s primal generations, when the memory memory the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his his unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real real and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and and what end; when though, according to Genesis, the angels indeed indeed with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the the Rabbins, indulged in mundane amours. amours. 51. The Spirit-Spout. Spirit-Spout. weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly slowly across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off off Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of of Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery watery southerly from St. Helena. Helena. was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and and night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; silver; by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery silvery not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen seen in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it it celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from from sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight moonlight it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a a there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet, yet, herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a a would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what what then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at at unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But But after spending his uniform interval there for several successive successive without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, silence, unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, jet, reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit spirit lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. “There she she Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered quivered yet still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was was most unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously deliriously that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a a lowering. the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the the sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The The man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head mast-head the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange, strange, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows hollows so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air air the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic antagonistic were struggling in her—one to mount direct to heaven, the the to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched watched face that night, you would have thought that in him also two two things were warring. While his one live leg made lively lively along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a a On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship ship swiftly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager eager shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every Every swore he saw it once, but not a second time. time. midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days days lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it it descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it it as if it had never been. And so it served us night after after till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously jetted jetted the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be; be; again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and and seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still still and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever ever us on. on. with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance accordance the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested invested Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that that and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however however apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by by self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there there too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as as it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the the might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest remotest most savage seas. seas. temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a a potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in in beneath all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a a charm, as for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so so lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful vengeful seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow. prow. at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began began around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas seas are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the the and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of of chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this this vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more more than before. before. to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither thither us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And And morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and and of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, hemp, though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a a appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for for homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved heaved black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great great soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering suffering had bred. bred. of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoso, as called called yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had had us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where where beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed seemed to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat beat black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and and still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still still us on from before, the solitary jet would at times be be descried. all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for for time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous dangerous manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever ever his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everything everything and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but but to await the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become become fatalists. So, with his ivory leg inserted into its its hole, and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for for and hours would stand gazing dead to windward, while an an squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very very together. Meantime, the crew driven from the forward part of of ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows, bows, in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to to against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a a of bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened loosened Few or no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by by sailors in wax, day after day tore on through all the swift swift and gladness of the demoniac waves. By night the same muteness muteness humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed; still in silence silence men swung in the bowlines; still wordless Ahab stood up to the the Even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would not not that repose in his hammock. Never could Starbuck forget the old old aspect, when one night going down into the cabin to mark how the the stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his his chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from from he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the the hat and coat. On the table beside him lay unrolled one of of charts of tides and currents which have previously been spoken spoken His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand. Though the body body erect, the head was thrown back so that the closed eyes were were towards the needle of the tell-tale that swung from a beam in in ceiling.* ceiling.* cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to to compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself himself the course of the ship. ship. old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this this still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose. purpose. 52. The Albatross. Albatross. from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising cruising for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross) (Albatross) name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the the I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro tyro the far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home. home. if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the the of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral spectral was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all all spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred furred with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it it to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They They clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment raiment had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops hoops to the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and and when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men men the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped leaped the mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those those fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not not word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being being from below. below. ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?” Whale?” as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in in act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his his into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to to himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing increasing distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the the were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the the mere mention of the White Whale’s name to another ship, Ahab for for moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a a to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But But advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, trumpet, knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer Nantucketer shortly bound home, he loudly hailed—“Ahoy there! This is the the bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters letters the Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home, home, them to address them to ——” ——” that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, then, accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, fish, for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, side, away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves themselves and aft with the stranger’s flanks. Though in the course of his his voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar similar yet, to any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously capriciously meanings. meanings. away from me, do ye?” murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water. water. seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of of helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. evinced. turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in in wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion lion helm! Keep her off round the world!” world!” the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings; feelings; whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through through perils to the very point whence we started, where those that that left behind secure, were all the time before us. us. this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for for reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange strange any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise promise the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in in chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims swims all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they they lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed. whelmed. 53. The Gam. Gam. ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had had was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had this this been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded boarded by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had had that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answer answer the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not not consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he he contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. But But this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said said of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other other foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground. cruising-ground. two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the the desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering encountering other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of of cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment moment interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and and in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the the Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling whaling descrying each other at the ends of the earth—off lone lone Island, or the far away King’s Mills; how much more natural, natural, say, that under such circumstances these ships should not only only hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and and contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of of in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose whose officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to to other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to to about. about. the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on on at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a a a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and and files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound outward-bound would receive the latest whaling intelligence from the the to which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost utmost to her. And in degree, all this will hold true concerning concerning vessels crossing each other’s track on the cruising-ground cruising-ground even though they are equally long absent from home. For one of of may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and now now remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of of ship she now meets. Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, news, have an agreeable chat. For not only would they meet with all the the of sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar peculiar arising from a common pursuit and mutually shared shared and perils. perils. would difference of country make any very essential difference; difference; is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case case Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number number English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when when do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; them; your Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not not that sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English English sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the the whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his his provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this this in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be be to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill kill whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this this a harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the the does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows knows he has a few foibles himself. himself. then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the the have most reason to be sociable—and they are so. Whereas, some some ships crossing each other’s wake in the mid-Atlantic, will will pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, recognition, cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies dandies Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism criticism each other’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at at they first go through such a string of silly bowings and and such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be be right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As As Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry, hurry, run away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, Pirates, they chance to cross each other’s cross-bones, the first hail hail many skulls?”—the same way that whalers hail—“How many many And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer steer for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like to to overmuch of each other’s villanous likenesses. likenesses. look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, sociable, whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another another in any sort of decent weather? She has a “_Gam_,” a thing so so unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name name and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it, it, repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubber-boilers,” and and like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and and all Pirates and Man-of-War’s men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish cherish a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it it be hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should should to know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory glory it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at at gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, fashion, has no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I I that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, whaleman, that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on. on. what is a _Gam?_ You might wear out your index-finger running up up down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Dr. never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster’s ark does not not it. Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years years in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Yankees. it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the the With that view, let me learnedly define it. it. NOUN—_A social meeting of two_ (_or more_) _Whaleships, generally generally a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails, they exchange exchange by boats’ crews: the two captains remaining, for the time, on on of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other._ other._ is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten forgotten All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so so the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the the is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern stern on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and often often himself with a pretty little milliner’s tiller decorated with with cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa sofa that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if if captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old old in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never never of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a complete complete crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or or is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the the and the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to to visit all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that that conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him him the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to to importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor Nor this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting projecting oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the the reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus thus wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself himself by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent violent of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of of is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a a angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again, again, would never do in plain sight of the world’s riveted eyes, it would would do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying steadying the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his his indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he he carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps being being very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast. ballast. there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones ones where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment moment two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman’s oarsman’s and hold on there like grim death. death. 54. The Town-Ho’s Story. Story. told at the Golden Inn._) Inn._) Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is is like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet meet travellers than in any other part. part. was not very long after speaking the Goney that another another whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned manned wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave us us news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White White was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho’s Town-Ho’s which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain certain inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of of which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter latter with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may may called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never never the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of of story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the the property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of of it seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of of but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and and so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could could well withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did did thing have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full full of it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were were governed in this matter, that they kept the secret among among so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod’s main-mast. main-mast. in its proper place this darker thread with the story as as narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now now to put on lasting record. record. ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, mast-head, used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin. terrapin. my humor’s sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once once it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one one eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Golden Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were were the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they they put, and which are duly answered at the time. time. two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about about to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket, Nantucket, cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastward eastward the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the the of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according according daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold hold common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But But captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good good awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to to them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, dangerous, indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low low as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued continued cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy easy but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was was leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that that taking some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the the harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and and repaired. no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance chance he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the the because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically periodically at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the the free; never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well well the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous prosperous the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at at port without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been been the brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the the provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from from Buffalo. Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?’ Buffalo?’ Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass. grass. the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but—I crave your your be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now, Now, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as as and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far far this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet yet nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly popularly with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate, aggregate, grand fresh-water seas of ours,—Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and and and Michigan,—possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many many the ocean’s noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of of and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic romantic even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by by great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long long approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, East, all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by by and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they they heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they they their beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash flash out their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by by and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried serried of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild wild beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give give to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and and as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the the merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer, steamer, the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as as as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks shipwrecks for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full full a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen, gentlemen, an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean wild-ocean as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, Radney, in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket Nantucket to nurse at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long long our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was was quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods backwoods fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn handled Bowie-knives. Yet Yet this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this this a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by by firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human human which is the meanest slave’s right; thus treated, this this had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he he proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and and gentlemen, you shall hear. hear. was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing her her for her island haven, that the Town-Ho’s leak seemed again again but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps pumps day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our our for example, some skippers think little of pumping their their way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the the of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the the would be that he and his shipmates would never again again it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. bottom. in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, westward, is it altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their their in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; length; is, if it lie along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any other other retreat is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel is is some very out of the way part of those waters, some really landless landless that her captain begins to feel a little anxious. anxious. this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found found once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by by of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded the the sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way way to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a a and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness apprehensiveness his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or or sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when he he this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the the declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner owner her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was was this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as they they with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear clear clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen—that bubbling from the the ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at at lee scupper-holes. scupper-holes. as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional conventional of ours—watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command command his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his his in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he he an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a a he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern’s tower, and make make little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may, may, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a a like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled tasseled of your last viceroy’s snorting charger; and a brain, and a a and a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt Steelkilt had he been born son to Charlemagne’s father. But Radney, Radney, mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious. malicious. did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it. it. the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the the the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with with gay banterings. banterings. aye, my merry lads, it’s a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, cannikin, of ye, and let’s have a taste. By the Lord, it’s worth bottling! I I ye what, men, old Rad’s investment must go for it! he had best cut cut his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that that only began the job; he’s come back again with a gang of of saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole whole of ’em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; bottom; improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him him jump overboard and scatter ’em. They’re playing the devil with his his I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty beauty Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in in I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the model model his nose.’ nose.’ your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney, Radney, not to have heard the sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’ it!’ aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys, boys, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; fire-engines; men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping gasping the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life’s life’s energies. energies. the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went went all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face face red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his his Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney Radney meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know know but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate mate him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a a and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a a to run at large. large. gentlemen, sweeping a ship’s deck at sea is a piece of household household which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every every it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually actually at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of of and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom whom not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in all all this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys, boys, boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the the that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; pumps; being the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been been assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should should been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly truly duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all all particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair affair between the two men. men. there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as as meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat spat his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will will this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman Lakeman comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat sat for a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate’s mate’s eye and perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him him the slow-match silently burning along towards them; as he he saw all this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness unwillingness stir up the deeper passionateness in any already ireful being—a being—a most felt, when felt at all, by really valiant men even when when nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over over Steelkilt. in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily bodily he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping sweeping deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, then, at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the the sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done done or nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a a domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his his meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an an cooper’s club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near near by. and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for for his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt Steelkilt but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still still the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained remained rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the the within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do do bidding. bidding. rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily steadily by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated repeated intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had had the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with with twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it it to no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the the when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him him he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the the paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: officer: Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to to But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where where Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of of teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions. maledictions. not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye eye the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching his his hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his his that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would would him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter slaughter the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant instant lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch hatch blood like a whale. whale. the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays backstays far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their their They were both Canallers. Canallers. cried Don Pedro. ‘We have seen many whale-ships in our our but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are are they?’ Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. Canal. must have heard of it.’ it.’ Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary hereditary we know but little of your vigorous North.’ North.’ Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha’s very fine; and ere ere further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such such may throw side-light upon my story.’ story.’ three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire entire of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and and thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and and cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room billiard-room bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman Roman over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or or through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk Mohawk and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires spires almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly Venetianly and often lawless life. There’s your true Ashantee, gentlemen; gentlemen; howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you; you; the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches. churches. by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan metropolitan that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so so gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities. vicinities. that a friar passing?’ said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the the plazza, with humorous concern. concern. for our northern friend, Dame Isabella’s Inquisition wanes in in laughed Don Sebastian. ‘Proceed, Senor.’ Senor.’ moment! Pardon!’ cried another of the company. ‘In the name of all all Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by by means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima for for Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look look you know the proverb all along this coast—“Corrupt as Lima.” Lima.” but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than than and for ever open—and “Corrupt as Lima.” So, too, too, I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St. St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you you out again.’ again.’ depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would would a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is is Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery flowery he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked red-cheeked ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, ashore, this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller Canaller proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his his features. A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages villages which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not not in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received received turns from one of these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would would be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the prime redeeming redeeming of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm arm back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In In gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is is evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so so of its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of of except Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling whaling Nor does it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter, matter, to many thousands of our rural boys and young men born along its its the probationary life of the Grand Canal furnishes the sole sole between quietly reaping in a Christian corn-field, and and ploughing the waters of the most barbaric seas. seas. see! I see!’ impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha chicha his silvery ruffles. ‘No need to travel! The world’s one Lima. I I thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were were and holy as the hills.—But the story.’ story.’ left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly Hardly he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and and four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down down ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the the and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. forecastle. of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted twisted ensued; while standing out of harm’s way, the valiant captain captain up and down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to to that atrocious scoundrel, and smoke him along to the the At intervals, he ran close up to the revolving border of of confusion, and prying into the heart of it with his pike, sought to to out the object of his resentment. But Steelkilt and his his were too much for them all; they succeeded in gaining the the deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large casks casks a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves themselves the barricade. barricade. out of that, ye pirates!’ roared the captain, now menacing them them a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. ‘Come ‘Come of that, ye cut-throats!’ cut-throats!’ leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there, there, the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to to distinctly, that his (Steelkilt’s) death would be the signal signal a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart heart this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but but commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty. duty. you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded their their ringleader. to! turn to!—I make no promise;—to your duty! Do you want to to the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!’ and he he more raised a pistol. pistol. the ship?’ cried Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us us to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What What ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their their response. Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye eye the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:—‘It’s not our our we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was was business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to to the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his his jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, there, look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to to say the word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to to to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t be be flogged.’ to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’ say!’ ye, now,’ cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him, him, are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped for for cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our our as soon as the anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’s it’s our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we we be flogged.’ flogged.’ to!’ roared the Captain. Captain. glanced round him a moment, and then said:—‘I tell you what what is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby shabby we won’t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till till say the word about not flogging us, we don’t do a hand’s turn.’ turn.’ into the forecastle then, down with ye, I’ll keep ye there till till sick of it. Down ye go.’ go.’ we?’ cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against against but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down down their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave. cave. the Lakeman’s bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain Captain his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide slide the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called called the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the the Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered whispered down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them—ten them—ten number—leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had had neutral. neutral. night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and and especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at at last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after after through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed passed peace; the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the the whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary dreary dismally resounded through the ship. ship. sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, deck, the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was was lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were were after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, it, Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three three this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, wrangling, then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; delivered; suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were were to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, diet, perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained constrained to surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain Captain his demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a a hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he he On the fifth morning three others of the mutineers bolted up up the air from the desperate arms below that sought to restrain restrain Only three were left. left. turn to, now?’ said the Captain with a heartless jeer. jeer. us up again, will ye!’ cried Steelkilt. Steelkilt. certainly,’ said the Captain, and the key clicked. clicked. was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of of of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had had hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as as as the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to to two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst burst of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with with keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a a at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if if any devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For For he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. not. was the last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met met no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were were for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a a And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first first on deck, when the time to make the rush should come. But to this this leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; himself; as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, other, the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder ladder but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play play these miscreants must come out. out. hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own own soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece piece treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be be first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and and secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might might But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead lead to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of of mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their their fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in in sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with with and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight. midnight. murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he he all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a a minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still still ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious perfidious who at once claimed the honor of securing a man who had been been ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along along deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the the rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till till ‘Damn ye,’ cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them, them, vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!’ villains!’ sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had had from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the the that he had a good mind to flog them all round—thought, upon the the he would do so—he ought to—justice demanded it; but for the the considering their timely surrender, he would let them go with with reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular. vernacular. as for you, ye carrion rogues,’ turning to the three men in the the you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;’ and, seizing seizing rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the two two till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their heads heads as the two crucified thieves are drawn. drawn. wrist is sprained with ye!’ he cried, at last; ‘but there is still still enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn’t give up. Take Take gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.’ himself.’ a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his his jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in a a of hiss, ‘What I say is this—and mind it well—if you flog me, I I you!’ you!’ ye so? then see how ye frighten me’—and the Captain drew off with with rope to strike. strike. not,’ hissed the Lakeman. Lakeman. I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke. stroke. here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain; Captain; to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck deck two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, rope, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’ hear?’ as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale pale with a bandaged head, arrested them—Radney the chief mate. Ever Ever the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the the on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the the scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly hardly but mumbling something about _his_ being willing and able to do do the captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced advanced his pinioned foe. foe. are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman. Lakeman. I am, but take that.’ The mate was in the very act of striking, striking, another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing pausing more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever that that have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were were to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps pumps as before. before. after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor clamor heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up, up, the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew. crew. cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their own own they were put down in the ship’s run for salvation. Still, no no of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed, seemed, mainly at Steelkilt’s instigation, they had resolved to maintain maintain strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the the reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the the end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing—namely, thing—namely, to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For, For, of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still still her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to lower lower a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the the ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his his for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the the jaw of the whale. whale. though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of of in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till till was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the the who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney Radney chief mate’s watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more more half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he he against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the the of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other other Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge. revenge. the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the the of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of of boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship’s side. In In attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a a vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between between was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his his trick at the helm would come round at two o’clock, in the morning morning the third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his his he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully carefully his watches below. below. are you making there?’ said a shipmate. shipmate. do you think? what does it look like?’ like?’ a lanyard for your bag; but it’s an odd one, seems to me.’ me.’ rather oddish,’ said the Lakeman, holding it at arm’s length length him; ‘but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enough enough you any?’ any?’ there was none in the forecastle. forecastle. I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft. aft. don’t mean to go a begging to _him!_’ said a sailor. sailor. not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to help help in the end, shipmate?’ and going to the mate, he looked at him him and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given given twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an an ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the the monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock hammock a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent silent to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready ready to the seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was then to come; and in the the soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and and as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in. in. gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody bloody he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the the For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in in take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have have done. was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second second when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe Teneriffe drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, ‘There ‘There rolls! there she rolls!’ Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick. Dick. Dick!’ cried Don Sebastian; ‘St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do do have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?’ Dick?’ very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;—but Don;—but would be too long a story.’ story.’ how?’ cried all the young Spaniards, crowding. crowding. Dons, Dons—nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more more the air, Sirs.’ Sirs.’ chicha! the chicha!’ cried Don Pedro; ‘our vigorous friend looks looks up his empty glass!’ glass!’ need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.—Now, gentlemen, so so perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the the of the compact among the crew—in the excitement of the the the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted lifted voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been been beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy. phrensy. White Whale—the White Whale!’ was the cry from captain, mates, and and who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious to to so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed eyed and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, mass, lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a a opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality fatality the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out out the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of of mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him, him, Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or or the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats boats lowered, the mate’s got the start; and none howled more fiercely fiercely delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a a pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney Radney to the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. boat. now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s topmost back. back. loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding blinding that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat boat as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the the mate. That instant, as he fell on the whale’s slippery back, back, boat righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was was over into the sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck struck through the spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that that wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But But whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer swimmer his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again, again, went down. down. at the first tap of the boat’s bottom, the Lakeman had had the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly calmly on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific, terrific, jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He He it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose rose with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in the the that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the the eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared. disappeared. good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary solitary no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the the all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted deserted the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double double of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor. harbor. ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called called the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving heaving the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over over dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both both night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent, underwent, upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a a condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so so a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the the as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon cannon the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the the not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with with and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight straight the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a a to his crew. crew. the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which which to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from from but the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of of hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The The presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked yoked the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the the so much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and and foam. do you want of me?’ cried the captain. captain. are you bound? and for what are you bound?’ demanded Steelkilt; Steelkilt; lies.’ lies.’ am bound to Tahiti for more men.’ men.’ good. Let me board you a moment—I come in peace.’ With that he he from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, gunwale, face to face with the captain. captain. your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me. As As as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder yonder and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightnings strike strike me!’ pretty scholar,’ laughed the Lakeman. ‘Adios, Senor!’ and leaping leaping the sea, he swam back to his comrades. comrades. the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the the of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due due arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck luck him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were were in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor sailor They embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former former had he been at all minded to work them legal retribution. retribution. ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived, arrived, the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized civilized who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small small schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all all there, again resumed his cruisings. cruisings. Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of of the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses to to up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that that him. * * * * * you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly. quietly. am, Don.’ Don.’ I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions, convictions, your story is in substance really true? It is so passing passing Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me me I seem to press.’ press.’ bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Don suit,’ cried the company, with exceeding interest. interest. there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, Inn, gentlemen?’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, who who quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised? advised? may grow too serious.’ serious.’ you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?’ Don?’ there are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of the company company another; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy. archiepiscopacy. us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.’ this.’ me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg beg you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists Evangelists can.’ can.’ * * * * * * is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,’ said Don Don gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure. figure. me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light, light, hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it. it. help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, ye, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be be it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I I seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.’” Radney.’” 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales. Whales. shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas, canvas, like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the the of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored moored the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there. there. may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those curious curious portraits of him which even down to the present day day challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the the right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all all wrong. may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will will found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For For since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble marble of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, shields, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of of like Saladin’s, and a helmeted head like St. George’s; ever ever then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not not in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific scientific of him. him. by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting purporting be the whale’s, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of of in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless endless of that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, pursuits, conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of of actually came into being. No wonder then, that in some sort our our profession of whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The The whale referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, wall, the incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly learnedly as the Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and and whale, so as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small small of him is all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an an than the broad palms of the true whale’s majestic flukes. flukes. go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian Christian portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the the Hindoo. It is Guido’s picture of Perseus rescuing rescuing from the sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model model such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the the scene in his own “Perseus Descending,” make out one whit better. better. huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the the scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on on back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows are are might be taken for the Traitors’ Gate leading from the Thames Thames water into the Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old old Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in the prints of old old and the cuts of old primers. What shall be said of these? As for for book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a a anchor—as stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of of books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely purely creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on on vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless nevertheless this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so so when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an an Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the the of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a a late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a a of the Leviathan. Leviathan. the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you you at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all all of spouts, jets d’eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and and come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the the of the original edition of the “Advancement of Learning” you you find some curious whales. whales. quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those those of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, delineations, those who know. In old Harris’s collection of voyages there are some some of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671, 1671, “A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the the Peter Peterson of Friesland, master.” In one of those plates the the like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among among with white bears running over their living backs. In another another the prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with with flukes. flukes. again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain Captain a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled “A Voyage round round Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the the Whale Fisheries.” In this book is an outline purporting to to a “Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from from killed on the coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck.” deck.” doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for the the of his marines. To mention but one thing about it, let me say say it has an eye which applied, according to the accompanying scale, scale, a full grown sperm whale, would make the eye of that whale a a some five feet long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not not us Jonah looking out of that eye! eye! are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the the of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of of Look at that popular work “Goldsmith’s Animated Nature.” In In abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged alleged and a “narwhale.” I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this this whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the the one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this this century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon upon intelligent public of schoolboys. schoolboys. again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacépède, a great great published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are are pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these these not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland Greenland (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long long man as touching that species, declares not to have its its in nature. nature. the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was was for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous famous In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he he what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that that to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary summary from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is is a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of of whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that that who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor predecessor the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that that from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the the those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us. us. for the sign-painters’ whales seen in the streets hanging over the the of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generally generally III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; savage; on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of of their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue blue paint. these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very very after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have have taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a a of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent represent noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars. spars. elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living living has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The The whale, in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen seen sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out out sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element element is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily bodily the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations. undulations. not to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour contour a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; Leviathan; even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a a deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying varying of him, that his precise expression the devil himself could not not catch. it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded stranded accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at at For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, Leviathan, his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though Though Bentham’s skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of of of his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed burly-browed old gentleman, with all Jeremy’s other leading personal personal yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any any articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the the skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully fully and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so so envelopes it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the the as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is is very curiously displayed in the side fin, the bones of which which exactly answer to the bones of the human hand, minus only the the This fin has four regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, ring, little finger. But all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy fleshy as the human fingers in an artificial covering. “However “However the whale may sometimes serve us,” said humorous Stubb one one “he can never be truly said to handle us without mittens.” mittens.” all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs needs that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world world must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit the the much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very very degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding finding precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in in you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by by a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of of eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you you best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this this Leviathan. 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True True of Whaling Scenes. Scenes. connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly strongly here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of them them are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern, modern, in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass pass matter by. by. know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale; Whale; Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In the previous previous Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is far far than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best. All All drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in in picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second second His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no no calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is is correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the the Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; contour; they are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though. though. the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they they drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has has one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency, deficiency, it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you you derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by by living hunters. hunters. taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details details the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to be be found, are two large French engravings, well executed, and and from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they represent represent on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble noble Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath beneath boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the the upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of of boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the the spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single single flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the the boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if if a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and and The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden wooden of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the the crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions expressions affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing bearing upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical anatomical of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I I not draw so good a one. one. the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside alongside barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his his weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the the cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so so from so abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there there be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are are at the small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and and which the Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent pestilent And all the while the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through through deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake, and and the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh nigh paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, the foreground is all all commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the the level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the the ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered conquered with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole whale-pole into his spout-hole. spout-hole. Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he he either practically conversant with his subject, or else else tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the the for painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, Europe, where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing breathing on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the the fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great great of France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Northern and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a a of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that that are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery. Garnery. natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of of seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings engravings have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’s England’s in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the the they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only only sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the the hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale whale seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical mechanical of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so so as picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to to the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned renowned whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland Greenland and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and and treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, hooks, knives, and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a a submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six ninety-six of magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement disparagement the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran), but in so so a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have procured procured every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of of Peace. Peace. addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two other other engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself himself Durand.” One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present present nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quiet quiet among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored, anchored, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened loosened of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, background, drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, fine, considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen fishermen one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving engraving quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in in very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; alongside; vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to to quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, activity, about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and and lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in in hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands stands out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the the of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke smoke a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up up earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the the seamen. seamen. 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in in in Mountains; in Stars. Stars. Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a a beggar (or _kedger_, as the sailors say) holding a painted painted before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his his There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats boats to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is is crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten ten they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited exhibited stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification justification now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever ever in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a a as any you will find in the western clearings. But, though for for mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman whaleman but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own own amputation. the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Sag you will come across lively sketches of whales and and graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Sperm or ladies’ busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and and like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous numerous ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough rough in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little little of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the the business. But, in general, they toil with their their alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, sailor, will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner’s mariner’s fancy. exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man man that condition in which God placed him, _i.e._ what is called called Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I I am a savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the the and ready at any moment to rebel against him. him. one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic domestic is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian Hawaiian or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of of is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon. lexicon. with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark’s tooth, that that intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has has steady years of steady application. application. with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the the marvellous patience, and with the same single shark’s tooth, of of one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not not as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design, as as Greek savage, Achilles’s shield; and full of barbaric spirit and and as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert Albert Durer. whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of of noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the the of American whalers. Some of them are done with much much accuracy. some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung hung the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is is the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking whales whales seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some some churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for for but they are so elevated, and besides that are to all all and purposes so labelled with “_Hands off!_” you cannot examine examine closely enough to decide upon their merit. merit. bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken broken masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the plain, plain, will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the the partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against against in a surf of green surges. surges. again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is is girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from from lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the the of whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be be thorough whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you you to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the the intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, stand-point, so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your your previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; re-discovery; the Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once once Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them. them. when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out out whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as as long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies armies in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased chased round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright bright that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent effulgent skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase chase the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and and Flying Fish. Fish. a frigate’s anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for for would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to to whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really really encamped beyond my mortal sight! sight! 58. Brit. Brit. north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows meadows brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale Whale feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that that seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden golden wheat. the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from from attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly sluggishly through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that that Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated separated the water that escaped at the lip. lip. morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance their their through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these these swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving leaving them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.* sea.* part of the sea known among whalemen as the “Brazil Banks” does does bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there there shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkable remarkable appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually continually in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased. chased. it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at at reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when when paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms forms more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in in great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will will pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them them be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; soil; so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species species the leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their their magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such such masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with with same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse. horse. in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the the with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though though old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are are their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of the the this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for for does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to to sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any any respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him. him. though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the seas seas ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and and though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, incognita, that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his his superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of of mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen befallen and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; waters; but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby man man brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering flattering that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever, ever, the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize pulverize stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the the repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense sense the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it. it. first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese Portuguese had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow. widow. same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships ships last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided; subsided; thirds of the fair world it yet covers. covers. differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a a upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, Hebrews, under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and and them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in in the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews. crews. not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it it also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who who his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath hath Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her her cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the the and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of of No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting snorting a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean ocean the globe. globe. the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures creatures under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously treacherously beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish devilish and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the the embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once once the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey prey each other, carrying on eternal war since the world began. began. all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile docile consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a a analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean ocean the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one one Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the the of the half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that that thou canst never return! return! 59. Squid. Squid. wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her her north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling impelling keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering tapering mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a a And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely, lonely, jet would be seen. seen. one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural preternatural over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when when long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid laid them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered whispered as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible visible a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head. main-mast-head. the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and and and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before before prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening glistening a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose, arose, silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick? Dick? Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once once with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, nod, negro yelled out—“There! there again! there she breaches! right right The White Whale, the White Whale!” Whale!” this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the the rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on on bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave wave orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction direction aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo. Daggoo. the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had had worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the the of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular particular he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed betrayed whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly distinctly the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave gave for lowering. lowering. four boats were soon on the water; Ahab’s in advance, and all all pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with with suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same spot spot it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for the the all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous wondrous which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind. A A pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing glancing lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms arms from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of of as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach. reach. perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of of sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an an formless, chance-like apparition of life. life. with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still still at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice voice rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to to seen thee, thou white ghost!” ghost!” was it, Sir?” said Flask. Flask. great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, beheld, returned to their ports to tell of it.” it.” Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; vessel; rest as silently following. following. superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected connected the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it it so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with with So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them them it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few few them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature nature form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm sperm his only food. For though other species of whales find their food food water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the the whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the the and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what, what, that food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will will what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some some them thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They They that the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings clings them to the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other other is supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it. it. seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop Bishop may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in in the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with with other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond. But But abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he he it. it. some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious mysterious here spoken of, it is included among the class of of to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would would to belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe. tribe. 60. The Line. Line. reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as as the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented, presented, have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line. whale-line. line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly slightly with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary ordinary for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable pliable the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to to sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary ordinary too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which which must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in in by no means adds to the rope’s durability or strength, however however it may give it compactness and gloss. gloss. late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost almost superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not not durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and and will add (since there is an æsthetics in all things), is much more more and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark dark a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian Circassian behold. behold. whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first first you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment experiment one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and and pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal equal three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures measures over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is is coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still still but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely densely “sheaves,” or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any any but the “heart,” or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of of cheese. As the least tangle or kink in the coiling would, in in out, infallibly take somebody’s arm, leg, or entire body off, off, utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in its tub. Some Some will consume almost an entire morning in this business, business, the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a a towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all all wrinkles and twists. twists. the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line line continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in in because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into into boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, tub, three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a a bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in in for the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which which bear up a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a a one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the the line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a a great wedding-cake to present to the whales. whales. ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an an or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the the and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything. everything. arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First: First: order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a a boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to to to carry off the entire line originally attached to the the In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug mug ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the first first always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This This is indispensable for common safety’s sake; for were the the end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the the then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking smoking as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed doomed would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of of sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again. again. lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is is aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is is carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise crosswise the loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against his his in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately alternately at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the the pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size size a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it it in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the the again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being being upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale gunwale a little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp—the short-warp—the which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to to connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too too to detail. detail. the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils, coils, and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the the are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid timid of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest deadliest sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal mortal for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies, intricacies, while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any any instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible horrible be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus thus without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones bones quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit—strange thing! what what habit accomplish?—Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, jokes, brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you you hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus thus in hangman’s nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before before Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of of with a halter around every neck, as you may say. say. a very little thought will now enable you to account for those those whaling disasters—some few of which are casually chronicled—of chronicled—of man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line, and lost. lost. when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat, is is being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a a in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and and is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in in heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, cradle, you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest slightest and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and and of volition and action, can you escape being made a a of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun himself could could pierce you out. out. as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and and of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself; itself; indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and and it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal fatal and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the the as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought brought actual play—this is a thing which carries more of true terror than than other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men men enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round their their but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, death, mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life. life. if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would would at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before before evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side. side. 61. Stubb Kills a Whale. Whale. to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to to it was quite a different object. object. you see him ’quid,” said the savage, honing his harpoon in the the of his hoisted boat, “then you quick see him ’parm whale.” whale.” next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special special engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell of of induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean Ocean which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively lively that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, dolphins, and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than than off the Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru. Peru. was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders shoulders against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed swayed what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in in dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of of body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will, will, after the power which first moved it is withdrawn. withdrawn. forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the the at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that that last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every every that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering slumbering The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the the trance of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all. all. bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my my grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved preserved with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not not fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like like capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian Ethiopian glistening in the sun’s rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating undulating the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his his jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of of warm afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck struck some enchanter’s wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all all once started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from from parts of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from from shouted forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and and spouted the sparkling brine into the air. air. away the boats! Luff!” cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he he the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes. spokes. sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and and the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the the but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples ripples he swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, alarmed, gave orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak speak in whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the the we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of of noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, chase, monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, air, then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up. up. go flukes!” was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by by producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite respite granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the the rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker’s boat, and and nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the the of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length length aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was therefore therefore longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. play. still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the the assault. a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy, jeopardy, was going “head out”; that part obliquely projecting from the mad mad which he brewed.* brewed.* will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the the interior of the sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Though Though the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about about So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does does when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the the part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water cut-water of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he he may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish sluggish into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat. pilot-boat. her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty of of start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,” cried cried spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now; give ’em ’em long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start boy—start all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy, word—easy, start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the the dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys—that’s all. Start Start her!” Wa-hee!” screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some old old to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat boat bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke stroke the eager Indian gave. gave. his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. “Kee-hee! “Kee-hee! yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat, seat, a pacing tiger in his cage. cage. Koo-loo!” howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a a of Grenadier’s steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels keels the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still still his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from from mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the the cry was heard—“Stand up, Tashtego!—give it to him!” The harpoon harpoon hurled. “Stern all!” The oarsmen backed water; the same moment moment went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists. It was was magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two two turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its its rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and and with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round round round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it it passed through and through both of Stubb’s hands, from from the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at at times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy’s enemy’s two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time time to wrest it out of your clutch. clutch. the line! wet the line!” cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him (him by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into into More turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. place. boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. fins. and Tashtego here changed places—stem for stern—a staggering staggering truly in that rocking commotion. commotion. to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be be that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the the line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or or is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most most convenient. the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part part the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you you have thought the craft had two keels—one cleaving the water, the the the air—as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at at A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy eddy her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a a finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic spasmodic into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main main to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall tall of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order order bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics Pacifics passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale whale slackened his flight. flight. in—haul in!” cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round round the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while while the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, Stubb, planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart dart the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately alternately out of the way of the whale’s horrible wallow, and then then up for another fling. fling. red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down down hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which which and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun sun upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection reflection every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men. men. all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot shot the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the the of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his his lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again again again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and and sent it into the whale. whale. up—pull up!” he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale whale in his wrath. “Pull up!—close to!” and the boat ranged along along fish’s flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned churned long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully carefully and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold gold that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of of ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was was innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting starting his trance into that unspeakable thing called his “flurry,” the the horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in in mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, craft, dropping astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from from phrensied twilight into the clear air of the day. day. now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into into surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting contracting spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last, last, after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees lees red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran ran down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst! burst! dead, Mr. Stubb,” said Daggoo. Daggoo. both pipes smoked out!” and withdrawing his own from his mouth, mouth, scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood stood eyeing the vast corpse he had made. made. 62. The Dart. Dart. word concerning an incident in the last chapter. chapter. to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes pushes from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary temporary and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost foremost the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, strong, arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what what called a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the the of twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting exhausting chase, the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the the indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman superhuman to the rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated repeated and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the the of one’s compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half half that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I I bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same same In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the the all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting exciting up, and give it to him!” He now has to drop and secure his his turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the the and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it it into the whale. No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen whalemen a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are are no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed cursed disrated; no wonder that some of them actually burst their their in the boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are are four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship ship whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer that that the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can can expect to find it there when most wanted! wanted! if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant, instant, is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer harpooneer start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of of and every one else. It is then they change places; and the the the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper proper in the bows of the boat. boat. I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both both and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from from to last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no no whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances circumstances to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a a loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in various various of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast vast of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so so the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the the that has caused them. them. insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this this must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out out toil. toil. 63. The Crotch. Crotch. of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in in subjects, grow the chapters. chapters. crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention. mention. is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, length, is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the the for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of of harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the the Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who who it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his his from the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in in crotch, respectively called the first and second irons. irons. these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with with line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one one after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the the drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It It a doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to to instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon upon the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, harpooneer, lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into into Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the the and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, events, anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else else most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the the it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line line in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, instances, practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended unattended the saddest and most fatal casualties. casualties. you must know that when the second iron is thrown thrown it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror, terror, curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines, lines, cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions. directions. in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is is captured and a corpse. corpse. now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging engaging unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these these in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of of an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be be dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is is with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first first be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are are narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several several important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be be painted. 64. Stubb’s Supper. Supper. whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was a a so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow slow of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen eighteen with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and and slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse corpse the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long long good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of of mass we moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever whatever call it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will will a bulky freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this this argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead pig-lead bulk. bulk. came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod’s Pequod’s dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab Ahab one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly Vacantly the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for for it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, seaman, his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until until morning. in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had had his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the the was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or or seemed working in him; as if the sight of that dead body body him that Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand thousand whales were brought to his ship, all that would not one jot jot his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought thought the sound on the Pequod’s decks, that all hands were preparing to to anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the the and thrust rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking clanking the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by by head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies lies its black hull close to the vessel’s and seen through the darkness darkness the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two—ship two—ship whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one one while the other remains standing.* standing.* little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most most hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, alongside, by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part is is heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its its even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; surface; that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to to the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a a strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, end, a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. ship. adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side side the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily readily to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last last fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of of with its broad flukes or lobes. lobes. moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known known deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an an but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was was in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned resigned him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping helping of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely strangely Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of of whale as a flavorish thing to his palate. palate. steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut cut one from his small!” small!” be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general general and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray defray current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds proceeds the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers Nantucketers have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale Whale by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body. body. midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two two of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper supper the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb Stubb only banqueter on whale’s flesh that night. Mingling their their with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, sharks, round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. fatness. few sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp sharp of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the the hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as (as you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and and over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of of whale of the bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the the seems all but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable unassailable they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains remains part of the universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave leave the whale, may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in in for a screw. screw. amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks sharks be seen longingly gazing up to the ship’s decks, like hungry dogs dogs a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every every man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant valiant over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other’s other’s meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks, sharks, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away away the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the the affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, thing, is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; parties; though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships ships the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy handy case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be be buried; and though one or two other like instances might be be down, touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do do socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no no time or occasion when you will find them in such countless countless and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm sperm moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never seen seen sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of of and the expediency of conciliating the devil. devil. as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was was on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of of own epicurean lips. lips. cook!—where’s that old Fleece?” he cried at length, widening his his still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper; supper; at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing stabbing his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!” cook!” old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously previously from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came came along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was was the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well well like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came came and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, which, a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old old floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, came came a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with with hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he he his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways sideways his head, so as to bring his best ear into play. play. said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his his “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve been been this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say say to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks sharks over the side, don’t you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a a they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to ’em; tell ’em they are are to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must must quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and and my message. Here, take this lantern,” snatching one from his his “now then, go and preach to ’em!” ’em!” taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck deck the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over over sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other other he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in in mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly softly behind, overheard all that was said. said. I’se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam dam dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin’ ob de lip! Massa Stubb say say you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you you stop dat dam racket!” racket!” here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap slap the shoulder,—“Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn’t swear that way way you’re preaching. That’s no way to convert sinners, cook!” cook!” dat? Den preach to him yourself,” sullenly turning to go. go. cook; go on, go on.” on.” den, Belubed fellow-critters:”— fellow-critters:”— exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, “coax ’em to it; try that,” and and continued. continued. you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you, you, dat dat woraciousness—’top dat dam slappin’ ob de de How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin’ and and dare?” dare?” cried Stubb, collaring him, “I won’t have that swearing. Talk Talk ’em gentlemanly.” gentlemanly.” more the sermon proceeded. proceeded. woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don’t blame ye so much for; dat dat natur, and can’t be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is is pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why why you be angel; for all angel is not’ing more dan de shark well well Now, look here, bred’ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a a yourselbs from dat whale. Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out your your mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat dat And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale whale to some one else. I know some o’ you has berry brig mout, mout, dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small small so dat de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to to off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can’t get into de de to help demselves.” demselves.” done, old Fleece!” cried Stubb, “that’s Christianity; go on.” on.” use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’ slappin’ oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ to to dam g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and dare dare is bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear you you for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and and hear not’ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.” eber.” my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, benediction, and I’ll away to my supper.” supper.” this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his his voice, and cried— cried— fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill fill dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.” die.” cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; “stand “stand where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular particular attention.” dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the the position. position. said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now go go to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you, you, cook?” dat do wid de ’teak,” said the old black, testily. testily. How old are you, cook?” cook?” ninety, dey say,” he gloomily muttered. muttered. you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook, cook, don’t know yet how to cook a whale-steak?” rapidly bolting another another at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the the “Where were you born, cook?” cook?” de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin’ ober de Roanoke.” Roanoke.” in a ferry-boat! That’s queer, too. But I want to know what what you were born in, cook!” cook!” I say de Roanoke country?” he cried sharply. sharply. you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook. You You go home and be born over again; you don’t know how to cook a a yet.” yet.” my soul, if I cook noder one,” he growled, angrily, turning turning to depart. depart. back, cook;—here, hand me those tongs;—now take that bit of steak steak and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be? Take Take I say”—holding the tongs towards him—“take it, and taste it.” it.” smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro negro “Best cooked ’teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy.” joosy.” said Stubb, squaring himself once more; “do you belong to the the church?” one once in Cape-Down,” said the old man sullenly. sullenly. you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, Cape-Town, you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as as beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, here, tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?” said Stubb. Stubb. do you expect to go to, cook?” cook?” to bed berry soon,” he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke. spoke. heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It’s an awful question. question. what’s your answer?” answer?” dis old brack man dies,” said the negro slowly, changing his his air and demeanor, “he hisself won’t go nowhere; but some bressed bressed will come and fetch him.” him.” him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch fetch where?” where?” dere,” said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and and it there very solemnly. solemnly. then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when when are dead? But don’t you know the higher you climb, the colder it it Main-top, eh?” eh?” say dat t’all,” said Fleece, again in the sulks. sulks. said up there, didn’t you? and now look yourself, and see where where tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by by through the lubber’s hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don’t don’t there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It’s a a business, but must be done, or else it’s no go. But none of us us in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye ye Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart, heart, I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’s there?—that’s gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it there there and pay attention.” attention.” ’dention,” said the old black, with both hands placed as desired, desired, wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at at and the same time. time. then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, bad, I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, that, you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for for private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not not spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live live to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now now cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by by get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends ends the flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go.” go.” Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled. recalled. give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch. mid-watch. hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! make a bow before you you heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast—don’t forget.” forget.” by gor! whale eat him, ’stead of him eat whale. I’m bressed if if ain’t more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself,” muttered the old man, man, away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock. hammock. 65. The Whale as a Dish. Dish. mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and, and, Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so so a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and and of it. it. is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right Right was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large large there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth’s time, a certain cook of the the obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be be with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of of Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The The is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being being seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls. balls. old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great great grant from the crown. crown. fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all all be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but but you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet feet it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men men Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are are so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare rare vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous famous recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly exceedingly and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who who ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel—that vessel—that men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of of which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among Among Dutch whalemen these scraps are called “fritters”; which, indeed, indeed, greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something something old Amsterdam housewives’ dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. fresh. have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can can keep his hands off. off. what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his his richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be be good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as the the (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid solid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that that like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the the month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for for Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into into other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches watches the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their their into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many Many good supper have I thus made. made. the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine fine The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two two whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large large they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most most mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is is a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some young young among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by by by get to have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to to a calf’s head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires requires discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with with intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of the the sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at at with an “Et tu Brute!” expression. expression. is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively excessively that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with with that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration consideration mentioned: _i.e._ that a man should eat a newly murdered thing thing the sea, and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man man ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was was and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would would been; and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the the of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds bipeds up at the long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight sight a tooth out of the cannibal’s jaw? Cannibals? who is not a a I tell you it will be more tolerable for the Fejee that that down a lean missionary in his cellar against a coming famine; it it be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in the day of of than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who who geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy thy paté-de-foie-gras. Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is is insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my my and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is is handle made of?—what but the bones of the brother of the very ox ox are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring devouring fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill quill the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to to formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month month two that that society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but but pens. pens. 66. The Shark Massacre. Massacre. in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and and toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general general at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting cutting in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very very completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the the usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a’lee; and then send send one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation reservation until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and and for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck deck see that all goes well. well. sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will will answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather gather the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a a little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning. In In other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so so abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably considerably by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a a notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to to them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the the case with the Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man man to such sights, to have looked over her side that night, night, have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and and sharks the maggots in it. it. upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was was and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came came deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for for suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering lowering lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid turbid these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an an murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep deep their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy foamy of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not not hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the the ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at at other’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and and their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again again the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was was all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these these A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in in very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual individual had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin, skin, of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg’s hand off, when he tried tried shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw. jaw. whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; steel; about the bigness of a man’s spread hand; and in general shape, shape, to the garden implement after which it is named; only its its are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than than lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when when used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a a pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle. handle. no care what god made him shark,” said the savage, savage, lifting his hand up and down; “wedder Fejee god or or god; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin.” Ingin.” 67. Cutting In. In. was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio officio of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was was into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would would thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods. gods. the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous ponderous comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and and no single man can possibly lift—this vast bunch of grapes was was up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the the point anywhere above a ship’s deck. The end of the the rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted conducted the windlass, and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over over whale; to this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one one pounds, was attached. And now suspended in stages over the the Starbuck and Stubb, the mates, armed with their long spades, spades, cutting a hole in the body for the insertion of the hook just just the nearest of the two side-fins. This done, a broad, broad, line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and the the body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving heaving one dense crowd at the windlass. When instantly, the entire ship ship over on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads nail-heads an old house in frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her her mast-heads to the sky. More and more she leans over to the the while every gasping heave of the windlass is answered by a a heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap snap heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards from from whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it it disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now as as blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange, orange, is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes sometimes by spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the the continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the the and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the the called the “scarf,” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck Starbuck Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and and by that very act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higher higher higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the the then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious prodigious mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, and and one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, else else may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard. overboard. of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon weapon a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices slices a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into Into hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then then so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for for follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands hands stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a a sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in in so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper upper called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for for The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one one is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other other slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the the hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the the Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep keep away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of of serpents. And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting hoisting lowering simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the the singing, the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates mates the ship straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by by of assuaging the general friction. friction. 68. The Blanket. Blanket. have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin skin the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced experienced afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion opinion unchanged; but it is only an opinion. opinion. question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you you what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence consistence firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and and from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness. thickness. however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any any skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet yet point of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; presumption; you cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the the body but that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer layer any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? skin? from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with with hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat somewhat the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as as and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it it only contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle. I I several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books. whale-books. is transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed printed I have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a a influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales whales their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving at at is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, I I invests the entire body of the whale, is not so much to be be as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin, so to to for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of of tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a a child. But no more of this. this. the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin, skin, in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one one barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, quantity, rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three three and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence hence had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose whose integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten ten to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three three of the stuff of the whale’s skin. skin. life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among among many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over over crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in in array, something like those in the finest Italian line line But these marks do not seem to be impressed upon the the substance above mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as as they were engraved upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some some to the quick, observant eye, those linear marks, as in a a engraving, but afford the ground for far other delineations. delineations. are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers cyphers the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to to in the present connexion. By my retentive memory of the the upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck struck a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the the hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Mississippi. those mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains remains This allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another another Besides all the other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Sperm presents, he not seldom displays the back, and more especially especially flanks, effaced in great part of the regular linear appearance, by by of numerous rude scratches, altogether of an irregular, random random I should say that those New England rocks on the sea-coast, sea-coast, Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping contact contact vast floating icebergs—I should say, that those rocks must not a a resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular. It also seems to me me such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile contact contact other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large, large, bulls of the species. species. word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of the the It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long long called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very very and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber blubber in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho poncho over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of of cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep keep comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. tides. would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy icy of the North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other other are found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but but be it observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very very are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the the of an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn inn whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his his and he dies. How wonderful is it then—except after after this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as as as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at at immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when when fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards, afterwards, frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is is glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been been by experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than than of a Borneo negro in summer. summer. does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong strong vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare rare of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself thyself the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, too, in this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep keep blood fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, and and the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of of own. own. how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections, erections, few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as the the whale! 69. The Funeral. Funeral. in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!” astern!” vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the the whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, hue, has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal. colossal. it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and and by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with with flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many many poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats floats and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, floats, seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the the din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that that sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon upon fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that that mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite infinite perspectives. a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all all pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or or In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, ween, peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral funeral most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from from not the mightiest whale is free. free. is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost ghost and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war man-of-war blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring obscuring swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in in sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the the unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the the rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!_ And for years years perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly silly leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there there a stick was held. There’s your law of precedents; there’s your your of traditions; there’s the story of your obstinate survival of of beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in in air! There’s orthodoxy! orthodoxy! while in life the great whale’s body may have been a real terror terror his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a a world. you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than than Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe believe them. them. 70. The Sphynx. Sphynx. should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping stripping body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the the Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced experienced surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason. reason. that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck; neck; the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that that place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the the must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening intervening him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a a rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear Bear mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut cut feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without without much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus thus he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts, parts, exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion insertion the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb’s boast, that he he but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale? whale? first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a a till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small small it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a a grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s head head nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend suspend a burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this this as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’ jewellers’ scales. Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head head hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, so so it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And And with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of of enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm yard-arm that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that that head hung to the Pequod’s waist like the giant giant from the girdle of Judith. Judith. this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went went to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but but deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow yellow was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves leaves the sea. sea. short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone alone his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to to over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he took took long spade—still remaining there after the whale’s whale’s striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended half-suspended placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood stood over with eyes attentively fixed on this head. head. was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so so a calm, it seemed the Sphynx’s in the desert. “Speak, thou vast vast venerable head,” muttered Ahab, “which, though ungarnished with a a yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty mighty and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou thou dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, gleams, moved amid this world’s foundations. Where unrecorded names and and rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous murderous this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the the there, in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar familiar Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many many sailor’s side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay lay down. Thou saw’st the locked lovers when leaping from their their ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true true each other, when heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw’st the the mate when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours hours fell into the deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his his still sailed on unharmed—while swift lightnings shivered the the ship that would have borne a righteous husband to to longing arms. O head! thou hast seen enough to split the the and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!” thine!” ho!” cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head. main-mast-head. Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erecting erecting while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “That “That cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better better away?” away?” points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze breeze us! us! and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way, way, to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man! man! far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the the atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate duplicate mind.” mind.” 71. The Jeroboam’s Story. Story. in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than than ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock. rock. and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads mast-heads her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and and by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the the could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what what would be made. made. be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships ships the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which which being collected in a book with the names of the respective respective attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale whale are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at at distances and with no small facility. facility. Pequod’s signal was at last responded to by the stranger’s setting setting own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Nantucket. her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod’s lee, lee, lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was was rigged by Starbuck’s order to accommodate the visiting captain, captain, stranger in question waved his hand from his boat’s stern in token token that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that the the had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her her was fearful of infecting the Pequod’s company. For, though though and boat’s crew remained untainted, and though his ship was was a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and and between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine quarantine the land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with with Pequod. Pequod. this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an an of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam’s Jeroboam’s by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to to Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it it very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times times the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed pushed way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper proper again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now now then, a conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at at not without still another interruption of a very different different sort. an oar in the Jeroboam’s boat, was a man of a singular singular even in that wild whaling life where individual individual make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish youngish sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant redundant hair. A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut walnut enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on on wrists. A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes. eyes. soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had had he! that’s he!—the long-togged scaramouch the the company told us of!” Stubb here alluded to a strange story story of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time time when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account account what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in in had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the the His story was this: this: had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Neskyeuna where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret secret having several times descended from heaven by the way of a a announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he he in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing containing was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, strange, whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, Nantucket, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, steady, exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate candidate the Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway straightway the ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in in freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded commanded captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he he himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and and of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which which declared these things;—the dark, daring play of his sleepless, sleepless, imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real real united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of of ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they they afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical practical in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he he the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but but that that individual’s intention was to land him in the first first port, the archangel forthwith opened all his seals and and the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition, in in this intention was carried out. So strongly did he work upon his his among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the the and told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of of would remain. He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan. Nor Nor they permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what he he so that it came to pass that Gabriel had the complete freedom of of ship. The consequence of all this was, that the archangel cared cared or nothing for the captain and mates; and since the epidemic had had out, he carried a higher hand than ever; declaring that the the as he called it, was at his sole command; nor should it be be but according to his good pleasure. The sailors, mostly poor poor cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in obedience to to instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to a god. god. things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true. true. is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the the self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless measureless of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But it is time to to to the Pequod. Pequod. fear not thy epidemic, man,” said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain Captain who stood in the boat’s stern; “come on board.” board.” now Gabriel started to his feet. feet. think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible horrible plague!” Gabriel!” cried Captain Mayhew; “thou must either—” But that that a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings seethings all speech. speech. thou seen the White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted drifted back. think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the the tail!” tail!” tell thee again, Gabriel, that—” But again the boat tore ahead as if if by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a a of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional occasional of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the the sperm whale’s head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was was eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel archangel seemed to warrant. warrant. this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story story Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from from whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed seemed with him. him. seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking speaking whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of of Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this this Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the the Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering gibbering pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the the God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some some or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the the Macey, the chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; him; the captain himself being not unwilling to let him have the the despite all the archangel’s denunciations and and Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat. boat. them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many many unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron iron Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was was one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of of doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while while the mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all the the energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the the and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a a white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion, motion, taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen. Next Next the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily bodily the air, and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea sea the distance of about fifty yards. Not a chip of the boat was was nor a hair of any oarsman’s head; but the mate for ever sank. sank. is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the the Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any. any. nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated; annihilated; the boat’s bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the the stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But But of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one, one, the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is is the man being stark dead. dead. whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly plainly from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek—“The vial! the vial!” vial!” called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of of whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added added because his credulous disciples believed that he had had fore-announced it, instead of only making a general general which any one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one one many marks in the wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror terror the ship. ship. having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him, him, the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he he to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which which answered—“Aye.” Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to to feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with with pointed finger—“Think, think of the blasphemer—dead, and down down of the blasphemer’s end!” end!” stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, “Captain, I have just just me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy thy if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag.” bag.” whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various various whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, addressed, upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. oceans. most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received received attaining an age of two or three years or more. more. Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely sorely damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in in of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a a Death himself might well have been the post-boy. post-boy. not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but but dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a a cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to to the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without without coming any closer to the ship. ship. Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a Harry—(a pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey, Macey, Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!” dead!” fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but let let have it.” it.” keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon going going way.” way.” throttle thee!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now to to it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he he it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the the But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; rowing; boat drifted a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if by by the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He He it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the the on it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab’s Ahab’s Then Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their their and in that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the the Pequod. after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket jacket the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild wild affair. 72. The Monkey-Rope. Monkey-Rope. the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, whale, is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands hands wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no no in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has has be done everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the the of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was was that upon first breaking ground in the whale’s back, the the was inserted into the original hole there cut by the the of the mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that that hook get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by my my friend Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to to upon the monster’s back for the special purpose referred to. to. in very many cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall shall on the whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation is is The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, submerged, the immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten ten below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, about, on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like like tread-mill beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured figured the Highland costume—a shirt and socks—in which to my eyes, at at he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better better to observe him, as will presently be seen. seen. the savage’s bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar bow-oar his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to to upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead dead back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by by long cord. Just so, from the ship’s steep side, did I hold Queequeg Queequeg there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery a a attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his his waist. was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we we further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both both fast to Queequeg’s broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow narrow one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, time, wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both both and honor demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should should me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature ligature us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I I way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond bond entailed. strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, then, while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to to that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock stock of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that that mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited unmerited and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of of in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have have gross an injustice. And yet still further pondering—while I jerked jerked now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten threaten jam him—still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of of was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in in cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a a of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your your by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True, True, may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these these the multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s Queequeg’s heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I I very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do do I would, I only had the management of one end of it.* it.* monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod Pequod the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This This upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man man Stubb, in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest strongest guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his his holder. holder. have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the the and the ship—where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant incessant and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy jeopardy was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the the the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before before blood which began to flow from the carcass—the rabid creatures creatures round it like bees in a beehive. beehive. right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them them with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were it it that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise otherwise carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man. man. it may well be believed that since they have such a a finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to to Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then then the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what what a peculiarly ferocious shark—he was provided with still another another Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego and and continually flourished over his head a couple of keen keen wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could could This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and and of them. They meant Queequeg’s best happiness, I admit; but but their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that that he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled blood-muddled those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a a than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping gasping with that great iron hook—poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed prayed his Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods. gods. well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in in then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea—what matters matters after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men men this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those those your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks sharks spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad. lad. courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, now, with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last last up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily involuntarily over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, benevolent, glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye ye hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water! water! Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near. near. this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then Then as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the the steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you have have goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of of Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to to a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil is is Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor poor here.” here.” is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this this he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just just from forward. “Will you look at that kannakin, sir: smell of it, it, you please.” Then watching the mate’s countenance, he added, “The “The Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to to there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an an sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by by he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?” man?” trust not,” said Starbuck, “it is poor stuff enough.” enough.” aye, steward,” cried Stubb, “we’ll teach you to drug a a none of your apothecary’s medicine here; you want to poison poison do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder murder all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?” ye?” was not me,” cried Dough-Boy, “it was Aunt Charity that brought the the on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, spirits, only this ginger-jub—so she called it.” it.” you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye to to lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr. Mr. It is the captain’s orders—grog for the harpooneer on a a whale.” replied Starbuck, “only don’t hit him again, but—” but—” I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of of sort; and this fellow’s a weazel. What were you about saying, saying, sir?” this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself.” thyself.” Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a a of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and and handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity’s gift, and that that freely given to the waves. waves. 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk Talk Him. Him. must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale’s Whale’s head hanging to the Pequod’s side. But we must let it it hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to to For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for for head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold. hold. during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually gradually into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit, brit, unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the the that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking lurking near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of of inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to to for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near near Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had had brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the the was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day, day, opportunity offered. offered. was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two two Stubb’s and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further further further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at at mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of of white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or or the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in in sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the the whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at first first seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a a within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from from as if diving under the keel. “Cut, cut!” was the cry from the the to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being being with a deadly dash against the vessel’s side. But having plenty plenty line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they they out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their their so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle struggle intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened tightened in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the the strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a few few advance they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they did did it; when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning lightning the keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, ship, rose to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so so off its drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken broken on the water, while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once once the boats were free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, speed, blindly altering his course, went round the stern of the ship ship the two boats after him, so that they performed a complete complete circuit. they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close close him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance; lance; thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the the of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale’s body, body, to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every every gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains fountains poured from the smitten rock. rock. last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he he upon his back a corpse. corpse. the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, flukes, in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some some ensued between them. them. wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard,” said said not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so so a leviathan. leviathan. with it?” said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat’s bow, bow, you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale’s Whale’s hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Right on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can can afterwards capsize?” capsize?” not? not? don’t know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so, so, he seems to know all about ships’ charms. But I sometimes think think charm the ship to no good at last. I don’t half like that chap, chap, Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved carved a snake’s head, Stubb?” Stubb?” him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a a night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look look there, Flask”—pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of both both will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in in Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been been away on board ship? He’s the devil, I say. The reason why you you see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries carries coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of of he’s always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.” boots.” sleeps in his boots, don’t he? He hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve I’ve him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.” rigging.” doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye ye in the eye of the rigging.” rigging.” the old man have so much to do with him for?” for?” up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.” suppose.” what?” what?” do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and and devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away away silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then then surrender Moby Dick.” Dick.” Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?” that?” don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked wicked I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old old once, switching his tail about devilish easy and and and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he he at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching switching hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the old old ‘What business is that of yours,’ says the devil, getting getting want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says the governor—and by the the Flask, if the devil didn’t give John the Asiatic cholera before before got through with him, I’ll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look look you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let’s get get whale alongside.” alongside.” think I remember some such story as you were telling,” said Flask, Flask, at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden burden the ship, “but I can’t remember where.” where.” Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soldadoes? soldadoes? ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?” did?” never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me, me, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was was same you say is now on board the Pequod?” Pequod?” I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn’t the devil live live ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see any any a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a a to get into the admiral’s cabin, don’t you suppose he can can into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?” Flask?” old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?” Stubb?” you see that mainmast there?” pointing to the ship; “well, that’s that’s figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod’s hold, and string string in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that that begin to be Fedallah’s age. Nor all the coopers in creation creation show hoops enough to make oughts enough.” enough.” see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you you to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if if so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going to to for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell me me that? him a good ducking, anyhow.” anyhow.” he’d crawl back.” back.” him again; and keep ducking him.” him.” he should take it into his head to duck you, though—yes, and and you—what then?” then?” should like to see him try it; I’d give him such a pair of black black that he wouldn’t dare to show his face in the admiral’s cabin cabin for a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he he and hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn Damn devil, Flask; so you suppose I’m afraid of the devil? Who’s afraid afraid him, except the old governor who daresn’t catch him and put him in in as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping kidnapping aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil devil he’d roast for him? There’s a governor!” governor!” you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?” Ahab?” I suppose it? You’ll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now now keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious suspicious on, I’ll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say—Look say—Look Beelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord Lord make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan, capstan, give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come come off at the stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when he he himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without the the satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.” legs.” what will you do with the tail, Stubb?” Stubb?” with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?” else?” do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?” Stubb?” or not mean, here we are at the ship.” ship.” boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, side, fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for for him. him. I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this right right head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.” parmacetti’s.” good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply steeply over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise of of heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may may believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke’s head, you go go that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant’s and you come come again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep keep boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard, overboard, then you will float light and right. right. disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the the the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the the of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut cut whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed removed hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to to is called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present present had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; astern; the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair pair overburdening panniers. panniers. Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale’s head, and ever ever anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own own And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his his while, if the Parsee’s shadow was there at all it seemed only only blend with, and lengthen Ahab’s. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish Laplandish were bandied among them, concerning all these passing passing things. 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View. View. now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us us them, and lay together our own. own. the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right Right are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales whales hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two two of all the known varieties of the whale. As the external external between them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a a of each is this moment hanging from the Pequod’s side; and as we we freely go from one to the other, by merely stepping across the the I should like to know, will you obtain a better chance to to practical cetology than here? here? the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between between heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a a mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale’s which the Right Right sadly lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale’s head. head. you behold it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to to in point of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this this is heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the the giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he he what the fishermen technically call a “grey-headed whale.” whale.” us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads—namely, the two two important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of the the and low down, near the angle of either whale’s jaw, if you you search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would would to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to the the of the head. head. from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it is is that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more more he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’s whale’s corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for for how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects objects your ears. You would find that you could only command some some degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; sight; about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking walking towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not not able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from from In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the the time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes makes front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes? eyes? while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes eyes so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to to one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of of whale’s eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of of head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating separating lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the the which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore, therefore, see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct distinct on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and and to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the the from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with with whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two two windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the the eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and and be remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes. scenes. curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this this matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a a So long as a man’s eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing seeing involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing seeing objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one’s experience experience teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of of at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and and to examine any two things—however large or however small—at small—at and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side by side side touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two two and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in in to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to to on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary contemporary How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes, in in must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more more combining, and subtle than man’s, that he can at the the moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on on side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he he then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able able to go through the demonstrations of two distinct distinct in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there any any in this comparison. comparison. may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the the vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when when by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer queer so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly indirectly from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their their and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them. them. the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an an stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads for for and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf leaf and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so so minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With With to their ears, this important difference is to be observed observed the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has has external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered covered with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without. without. it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the the through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear ear is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lens lens Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of of would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of of Not at all.—Why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind? mind? it. it. us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant cant the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending ascending a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not not the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we we descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But But us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What What really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling, ceiling, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as as satins. satins. come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems seems the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one one instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead, overhead, expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such, such, it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these these fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold, behold, fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there there with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging hanging down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a a jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of of perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his his have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a a to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon upon him. most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised practised disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting extracting ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone whalebone which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles, articles, canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips. riding-whips. a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an an and when the proper time comes—some few days after the other other Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, dentists, set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances lances gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being being from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag drag of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally generally teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; undecayed; filled after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn sawn slabs, and piled away like joists for building houses. houses. 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View. View. the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Right head. head. in general shape the noble Sperm Whale’s head may be compared to a a war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly broadly so, at a broad view, the Right Whale’s head bears a rather rather resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred hundred ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a a last. And in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the the tale, with the swarming brood, might very comfortably be be she and all her progeny. progeny. as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different different according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit summit look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole whole for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in in sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange, strange, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green, green, thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and the the fishers the “bonnet” of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes eyes on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, oak, a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those those crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost almost to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the the term “crown” also bestowed upon it; in which case you will will great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a a king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for for in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a a sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower lower what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by by measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a a and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more. more. great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped. hare-lipped. fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an an interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when when caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery slippery we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at at I should take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Good is this the road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet feet and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regular regular there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us us those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, whalebone, three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the the or crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere elsewhere cursorily mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with with fibres, through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in in intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes goes the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of of as they stand in their natural order, there are certain curious curious curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the the age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the the of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the the of analogical probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we we grant a far greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance glance seem reasonable. reasonable. old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies fancies these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous wondrous inside of the whale’s mouth;* another, “hogs’ bristles”; a a old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: language: are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his his _chop_, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth.” mouth.” reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or or a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the the part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these tufts tufts a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn solemn countenance. every one knows, these same “hogs’ bristles,” “fins,” “whiskers,” “whiskers,” or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and and stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has has been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne’s time that the bone was was its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those those dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as as may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we we fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a a spread over the same bone. bone. now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, and, in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all all colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not not you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its its pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest softest tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the the It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting hoisting on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I I say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that that of oil. oil. this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started started the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely entirely heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is no no well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible mandible a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are are any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely scarcely of a tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external external the Sperm Whale only one. one. your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet yet together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other other not be very long in following. following. you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the same same died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem now now away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like prairie-like born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the the head’s expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by by against the vessel’s side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. jaw. not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical practical in facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a a the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in in latter years. years. 76. The Battering-Ram. Battering-Ram. quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale’s head, I would have you, you, a sensible physiologist, simply—particularly remark its front front in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you you it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some some intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may may lodged there. Here is a vital point; for you must either either settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an an as to one of the most appalling, but not the less true events, events, anywhere to be found in all recorded history. history. observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale, Whale, front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the the you observe that the lower part of that front slopes slopes backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long long which receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the the is entirely under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as as your own mouth were entirely under your chin. Moreover you you that the whale has no external nose; and that what nose he he spout hole—is on the top of his head; you observe that his eyes eyes ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one third of his entire entire from the front. Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the the of the Sperm Whale’s head is a dead, blind wall, without a single single or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are are to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part part the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and and till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the the cranial development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is is one wad. Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents contents comprise the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised apprised the nature of the substance which so impregnably invests all that that effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you how how blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. orange. so with the head; but with this difference: about the head this this though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable inestimable any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the the lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds rebounds it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved paved horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it. it. yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen Indiamen to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the the do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming coming any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold hold a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and and of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which which have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By By this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But But to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that as as fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, them, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, Whale, far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the the inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head head beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated elevated of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its its considering the unique interior of his head; it has has occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled lung-celled there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and and connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to to distension and contraction. If this be so, fancy the the of that might, to which the most impalpable and and of all elements contributes. contributes. mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable uninjurable and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a a of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood wood the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest smallest So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the the and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this this monster; when I shall show you some of his more more braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all all incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the the Whale stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed mixed Atlantic with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your your For unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and and in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander salamander only to encounter; how small the chances for the provincials provincials What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess’s veil veil Lais? Lais? 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun. Tun. comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must must something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated operated upon. the Sperm Whale’s head as a solid oblong, you may, on an an plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower lower the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an an mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the the vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the the horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two two equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal internal of a thick tendinous substance. substance. is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical nautical I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a a which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the the inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both both sides. lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of of formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand thousand cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole whole The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great great Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is is carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead forms forms strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his his tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished replenished the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun tun the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily oily namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, pure, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found found in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains remains fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon soon to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when when first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’s whale’s generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from from circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and and away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish ticklish of securing what you can. can. know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun was was within, but in superlative richness that coating could not not have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like like lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Sperm case. case. will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale Whale the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since—as since—as been elsewhere set forth—the head embraces one third of the whole whole of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet feet a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the the of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a a side. side. in decapitating the whale, the operator’s instrument is brought brought to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the the magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest lest careless, untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly wastingly out its invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the the also, which is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in in position by the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen hempen on one side, make quite a wilderness of ropes in that that quarter. much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and—in and—in particular instance—almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Sperm great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped. tapped. 78. Cistern and Buckets. Buckets. as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect erect runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the the where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried carried him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts, parts, through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that that hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it it caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down down other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he he on the summit of the head. There—still high elevated above the the of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some Turkish Turkish calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A A sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches searches the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business business proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, house, the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time time cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like like well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the the end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or or alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the the to whom another person has reached up a very long pole. pole. this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the the into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the word word the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like like dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the the vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly quickly into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through through same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the the Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper deeper deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the pole have gone gone down. the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way; way; tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once once queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild wild was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his his hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or or the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or or the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, without without his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling telling but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came came up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket bucket a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of of and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of of sight! overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first first to his senses. “Swing the bucket this way!” and putting one foot foot it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip whip the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost almost Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, there there a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before before head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, sea, if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only only poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous perilous to which he had sunk. sunk. this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing clearing whip—which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles—a tackles—a cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, all, of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a a vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship ship and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook, hook, which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be be the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent violent of the head. head. down, come down!” yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand hand on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he he still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line, line, down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the the harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out. out. heaven’s name, man,” cried Stubb, “are you ramming home a cartridge cartridge How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on on of his head? Avast, will ye!” ye!” clear of the tackle!” cried a voice like the bursting of a a rocket. in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass mass into the sea, like Niagara’s Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the the relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering glittering and all caught their breath, as half swinging—now over the the heads, and now over the water—Daggoo, through a thick mist of of was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, poor, Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the the But hardly had the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked naked with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen seen over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my my Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the the and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, moment, no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands hands jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the the ship. ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch perch and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust thrust from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust thrust from the grass over a grave. grave. both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and and after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and and the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the the boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was was in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk. brisk. how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the the descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side side near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then then his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, upwards, so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first first in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that that not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;—he had had back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a a upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in in good old way—head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was was as well as could be expected. expected. thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of of the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was was accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and and hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be be Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing fencing boxing, riding and rowing. rowing. know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header’s will be sure to to incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have have seen or heard of some one’s falling into a cistern ashore; an an which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than than Indian’s, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the the Whale’s well. well. peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought thought tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and and corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of of far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at at but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had had nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the the tendinous wall of the well—a double welded, hammered substance, substance, I have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of of sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking sinking this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted counteracted the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it it very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair fair for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. say. it was a running delivery, so it was. was. had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious precious smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant fragrant coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber chamber sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be be delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey honey the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that that too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed. How How think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato’s honey head, and and perished there? there? 79. The Prairie. Prairie. scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this this this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has has yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as as Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar, Gibraltar, for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the the Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of of various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of of birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the the of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and his his Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the the characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore, Therefore, I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of of two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all all I achieve what I can. can. regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He He no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most most of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and and controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that that entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect affect countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire, spire, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable indispensable the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in in without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the the from Phidias’s marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder! remainder! Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his his are so stately, that the same deficiency which in the the Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is is added grandeur. A nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As As your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your your your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by the the that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which which often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest mightiest beadle on his throne. throne. some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to to had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This This is sublime. sublime. thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the the In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has has touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, defiles, elephant’s brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is is that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to their their It signifies—“God: done this day by my hand.” But in most most nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip strip alpine land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which which Shakespeare’s or Melancthon’s rise so high, and descend so low, low, the eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; lakes; all above them in the forehead’s wrinkles, you seem to track the the thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters hunters the snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this this and mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely immensely that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the the and the dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other other in living nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one one feature is revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face; face; has none, proper; nothing but that one broad firmament of a a pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, boats, ships, and men. Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish; diminish; that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In In you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic semi-crescentic in the forehead’s middle, which, in man, is Lavater’s mark mark genius. genius. how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written a a spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doing doing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his his silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale Whale known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by by child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile, Nile, the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, tongue, at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of of If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall shall back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and and enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now now hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, the great great Whale shall lord it. it. deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is is Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’s being’s Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing passing If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could could read the simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle subtle how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of of Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you you can. 80. The Nut. Nut. the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist phrenologist brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to to square. the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet feet length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as as side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level level But in life—as we have elsewhere seen—this inclined plane is is filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent superincumbent of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to to that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater—in crater—in cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in in the mere handful of this monster’s brain. The brain is at at twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away away its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the the fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it it in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny deny the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance semblance one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in in folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, it it more in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that that part of him as the seat of his intelligence. intelligence. is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in in creature’s living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his his brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The The like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the the world. world. you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view view its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its its to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from from same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down down the human magnitude) among a plate of men’s skulls, and you would would confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on on part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say—This man man no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations, negations, along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and and you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most most conception of what the most exalted potency is. is. if from the comparative dimensions of the whale’s proper brain, you you it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another idea idea you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped’s spine, you you be struck with the resemblance of its vertebræ to a strung strung of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the the proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebræ are absolutely absolutely skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it the the were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once once it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with with vertebræ of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the the prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have have an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the the through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’s man’s will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel feel spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine spine yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in in firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the the world. this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial cranial is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra vertebra bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being being in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As As passes through the remaining vertebræ the canal tapers in size, but but a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course, course, canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—the substance—the cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. And And is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain’s brain’s the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal equal that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be be to survey and map out the whale’s spine phrenologically? phrenologically? viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his his proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative comparative of his spinal cord. cord. leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I I merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the the Whale’s hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one one the larger vertebræ, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer outer mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should call call high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Sperm And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have have to know. know. 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin. Virgin. predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Jungfrau, De Deer, master, of Bremen. Bremen. one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and and are now among the least; but here and there at very wide wide of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with with flag in the Pacific. Pacific. some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects. respects. yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a a her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the the instead of the stern. stern. has he in his hand there?” cried Starbuck, pointing to something something held by the German. “Impossible!—a lamp-feeder!” lamp-feeder!” that,” said Stubb, “no, no, it’s a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he’s he’s off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don’t you see that big big can there alongside of him?—that’s his boiling water. Oh! he’s all all is the Yarman.” Yarman.” along with you,” cried Flask, “it’s a lamp-feeder and an oil-can. oil-can. out of oil, and has come a-begging.” a-begging.” curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the the and however much it may invertedly contradict the old old about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing thing happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did did conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare. declare. he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all all what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German German evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately immediately the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some some touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in in darkness—his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a a flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding by by that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically technically a _clean_ one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name name Jungfrau or the Virgin. Virgin. necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his his side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the the of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that that pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed slewed his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders. lamp-feeders. the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German German that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the the keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their their they were going all abreast with great speed straight before before wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in in They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling unrolling great wide parchment upon the sea. sea. in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge, huge, old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as as the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed seemed with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this this belonged to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is is customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social. social. he stuck to their wake, though indeed their back water water have retarded him, because the white-bone or swell at his broad broad was a dashed one, like the swell formed when two hostile hostile meet. His spout was short, slow, and laborious; coming forth forth a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in torn shreds, shreds, by strange subterranean commotions in him, which seemed to to egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters behind behind to upbubble. upbubble. got some paregoric?” said Stubb, “he has the stomach-ache, I’m I’m Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse Adverse are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It’s the first foul wind wind ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so so it must be, he’s lost his tiller.” tiller.” an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck deck of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her her so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partly partly over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious devious in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost lost fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say. say. wait a bit, old chap, and I’ll give ye a sling for that wounded wounded cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him. him. he don’t sling thee with it,” cried Starbuck. “Give way, or the the will have him.” him.” one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this one one because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most most whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were were with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit for for time. At this juncture the Pequod’s keels had shot by the three three boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, had, boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his his rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being being so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron iron they could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he he quite confident that this would be the case, and occasionally occasionally a deriding gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats. boats. ungracious and ungrateful dog!” cried Starbuck; “he mocks and and me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes minutes in his old intense whisper—“Give way, greyhounds! Dog to to it!” tell ye what it is, men”—cried Stubb to his crew—“it’s against my my to get mad; but I’d like to eat that villainous villainous ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do ye ye brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come, why why some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping an an overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’s here’s growing in the boat’s bottom—and by the Lord, the mast there’s there’s This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long long it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?” not?” see the suds he makes!” cried Flask, dancing up and down—“What a a _do_ pile on the beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, _do_ _do_ and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clams clams muffins—oh, _do_, _do_, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t lose lose now—don’t oh, _don’t!_—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for your your my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? There There three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank of of _do_, _do_, _do!_—What’s that Yarman about now?” now?” this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the the boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view of of his rivals’ way, and at the same time economically economically his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss. toss. unmannerly Dutch dogger!” cried Stubb. “Pull now, men, like fifty fifty line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d’ye say, say, are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces pieces the honor of old Gayhead? What d’ye say?” say?” say, pull like god-dam,”—cried the Indian. Indian. but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod’s Pequod’s boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, disposed, neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of the the when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up up occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating exhilarating of, “There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down Down the Yarman! Sail over him!” him!” so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all all gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not not righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the the of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to to his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick’s boat was nigh nigh capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;—that rage;—that a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took took mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German’s German’s An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the the immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was was foaming swell that he made. made. was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was was going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual continual jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of of Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering faltering and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank sank the sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So So I seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles circles the air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird bird a voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the the of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted enchanted him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his his and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while while in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, there there enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied. pitied. now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod’s Pequod’s the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick Derick to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long long ere the last chance would for ever escape. escape. no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all all tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to their their and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their their and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three three irons entered the whale. Blinding vapors of foam and and The three boats, in the first fury of the whale’s headlong headlong bumped the German’s aside with such force, that both Derick and and baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three three keels. keels. be afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passing passing upon them as he shot by; “ye’ll be picked up presently—all presently—all saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve know—relieve travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel keel sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a a cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a a on a plain—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to to that way; and there’s danger of being pitched out too, when you you a hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he’s going going Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this this carries the everlasting mail!” mail!” the monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he he sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round round loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them; them; so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would would exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they they repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at at to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of of boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue—the blue—the of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three three tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound, for for time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more more though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have have taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this “holding on,” as as is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from from back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising rising to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the the of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always always best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the the whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, Because, to the enormous surface of him—in a full grown sperm whale whale less than 2000 square feet—the pressure of the water is is We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we we stand up under; even here, above-ground, in the air; how how then, the burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of two two fathoms of ocean! It must at least equal the weight of fifty fifty One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of twenty twenty ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on on board. the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down down its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any any nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; depths; landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and and the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in in Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows. bows. it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan Leviathan suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and and what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was was so triumphantly said—“Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? irons? his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him him hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron iron straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble; stubble; laugheth at the shaking of a spear!” This the creature? this he? Oh! Oh! unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength of of thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the the of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod’s fish-spears! fish-spears! that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats boats down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad broad to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to the the whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head! head! by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly suddenly in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by by wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every every felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part part the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce bounce as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are are from it into the sea. sea. in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.” rising.” lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadth breadth have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all all into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two two lengths of the hunters. hunters. motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land land there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, veins, when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly instantly off in certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose whose it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the the so that when pierced even by so small a point as a a a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial arterial and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure of of at a great distance below the surface, his life may be said to to from him in incessant streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of of in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains, that that will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even even in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs well-springs far-off and undiscernible hills. Even now, when the boats pulled pulled this whale, and perilously drew over his swaying flukes, and the the were darted into him, they were followed by steady jets from the the made wound, which kept continually playing, while the natural natural in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending sending affrighted moisture into the air. From this last vent no blood yet yet because no vital part of him had thus far been struck. His life, life, they significantly call it, was untouched. untouched. the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of of form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly plainly His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were were As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the the oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale’s eyes eyes once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see. see. pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his his eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light light gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate illuminate solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to to Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a a discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low low on the flank. flank. nice spot,” cried Flask; “just let me prick him there once.” once.” cried Starbuck, “there’s no need of that!” that!” humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an an jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more more sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift swift blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying glorying all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask’s boat and marring marring bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he he loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had had lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin, fin, over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the the secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most most that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water is is drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled half-stifled gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the the the last long dying spout of the whale. whale. while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body body symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled. unrifled. by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it at at points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken sunken being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords. By very very management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred transferred her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiffest stiffest for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, the the would at once sink to the bottom. bottom. so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade, spade, entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his his on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the the of harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured captured with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence prominence any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs have have some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for for ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a a of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, iron, flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And And It might have been darted by some Nor’ West Indian long before before was discovered. discovered. other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous monstrous there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further further by the ship’s being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways sideways the sea, owing to the body’s immensely increasing tendency to sink. sink. Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to to last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the the would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with with body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such such the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the the and cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast cast off. Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the the side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a a The ship groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her her and cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural unnatural In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the the fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so so had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at at approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed seemed to the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going going over. on, hold on, won’t ye?” cried Stubb to the body, “don’t be in in a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something something go for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, handspikes, run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big big chains.” Aye, aye,” cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter’s heavy heavy he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing slashing the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were were when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific terrific every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank. sank. this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm Sperm is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately adequately for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great great with its side or belly considerably elevated above the the If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and and creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their their heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that that sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so so consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it it not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with with aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of of with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny, brawny, heroes do sometimes sink. sink. it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this this than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty twenty Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable imputable no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale; Whale; Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this this the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances instances after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale whale rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this is is Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious prodigious becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship ship hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, soundings, the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of of they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when when body has gone down, they know where to look for it when it shall shall ascended again. again. was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from from Pequod’s mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again again her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a a belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of of incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back’s spout is is similar to the Sperm Whale’s, that by unskilful fishermen it is is mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were were in valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all all made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared disappeared to leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase. chase. many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend. friend. 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling. Whaling. are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the the method. method. more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up up the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its its honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many many demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other other shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection reflection I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a a fraternity. gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to to eternal honor of our calling be it said, that the first whale whale by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent. intent. were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms arms succor the distressed, and not to fill men’s lamp-feeders. Every one one the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely lovely the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, sea-coast, as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the the of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and and and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, exploit, achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as as Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt doubt Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian Syrian in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast vast of a whale, which the city’s legends and all the inhabitants inhabitants to be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. slew. the Romans took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in in What seems most singular and suggestively important in this this is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail. sail. to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposed supposed be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George and and Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many many chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and and stand for each other. “Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a a of the sea,” saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in in some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it it much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but but a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle battle the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only only Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march march up to a whale. whale. not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the the encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely vaguely of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted depicted land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance ignorance those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists; artists; considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might have have up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal animal by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse; sea-horse; all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatible incompatible the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to to this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. himself. fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story story fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Philistines, by name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse’s horse’s and both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the the or fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noble noble even a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by by rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most most order of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that that company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do do a whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer Nantucketer disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we we much better entitled to St. George’s decoration than they. they. to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long long dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that that Crockett and Kit Carson—that brawny doer of rejoicing good good was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that that makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere nowhere that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from from inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary involuntary at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I I him for one of our clan. clan. by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of of and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more more Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versâ; certainly certainly are very similar. If I claim the demi-god then, why not the the prophet? do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole whole of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like like kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in in short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental oriental is now to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread dread one of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives gives this divine Vishnoo himself for our Lord;—Vishnoo, who, by the first first his ten earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified sanctified whale. When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved resolved recreate the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave gave to Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical mystical whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo Vishnoo beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained contained in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these these were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became became in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths, depths, the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even even a man who rides a horse is called a horseman? horseman? St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there’s a a for you! What club but the whaleman’s can head off like like that? 83. Jonah Historically Regarded. Regarded. was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in in preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this this story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some some Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans pagans their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, whale, Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did did make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that. that. old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning the Hebrew Hebrew was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles, Bibles, with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented represented whale with two spouts in his head—a peculiarity only true with with to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the the of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this this “A penny roll would choke him”; his swallow is so very small. small. to this, Bishop Jebb’s anticipative answer is ready. It is not not hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the the belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And And seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the Right Right mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and and seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have have himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right Right is toothless. toothless. reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his his of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in in to his incarcerated body and the whale’s gastric juices. But But objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist exegetist that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a a whale—even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned turned dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it has has divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was was overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his his to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a a and, I would add, possibly called “The Whale,” as some some are nowadays christened the “Shark,” the “Gull,” the “Eagle.” Nor Nor there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the the mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver—an life-preserver—an bag of wind—which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was was from a watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all all But he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was was if I remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the the Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere somewhere three days’ journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much much than three days’ journey across from the nearest point of the the coast. How is that? that? was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within within short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by by way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage passage the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up up Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the the circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of of Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any any to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape of of Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of of great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and and make modern history a liar. liar. all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his his pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing seeing he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the the and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and and devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a a Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Nineveh Nineveh the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the the miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly highly Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. Jonah. some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’s Harris’s speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which which was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil. oil. 84. Pitchpoling. Pitchpoling. make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are are and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an an operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it it be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly possibly of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are are that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to to the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing anointing boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau Jungfrau took more than customary pains in that occupation; occupation; under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in in unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair hair the craft’s bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to to particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the the event. noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to to they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered disordered as of Cleopatra’s barges from Actium. Actium. the boats pursued, and Stubb’s was foremost. By great great Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the the whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal horizontal with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the the iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became became to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But to to the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and and What then remained? remained? all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and and subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, forced, exceed that fine manœuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small Small or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It It only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand fact fact feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is is darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme extreme Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or or feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the the and also of a lighter material—pine. It is furnished with a a rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be be back to the hand after darting. darting. before going further, it is important to mention here, that though though harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it is is done; and when done, is still less frequently successful, on on of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as as with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a a thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before before pitchpoling comes into play. play. now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and and in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel excel pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the the boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet feet Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along along length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers gathers the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in in grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full full his waistband’s middle, he levels it at the whale; when, when, him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, hand, elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon upon palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler, juggler, a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless nameless in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming foaming and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of of water, he now spouts red blood. blood. drove the spigot out of him!” cried Stubb. “’Tis July’s immortal immortal all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old old whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then, Then, lad, I’d have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we’d drink drink it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we’d brew choice punch in the the of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the the stuff.” stuff.” and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated, repeated, spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful skilful The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is is and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and and watches the monster die. die. 85. The Fountain. Fountain. for six thousand years—and no one knows how many millions of ages ages great whales should have been spouting all over the sea, and and and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so many many or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back, back, of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the the watching these sprinklings and spoutings—that all this should should and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter quarter past one o’clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D. A.D. it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, are, all, really water, or nothing but vapor—this is surely a a thing. thing. us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items items Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their their the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times times combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a a might live a century, and never once raise its head above the the But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him him lungs, like a human being’s, the whale can only live by by the disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the the for his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot cannot any degree breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, attitude, Sperm Whale’s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the the and what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his his No, he breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the the of his head. head. I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function function to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a a element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the the imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I I err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words. words. it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be be with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not not another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then then without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the the with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full full and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or or much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has has gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine spine is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of of vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are are distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or or a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of of in him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert desert a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four four stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is is and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable reasonable true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise otherwise obstinacy of that leviathan in _having his spoutings out_, out_, the fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon upon to the surface, the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period period time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings. Say he he eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy seventy then whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have his his breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few few you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up up to make good his regular allowance of air. And not till those those breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full full below. Remark, however, that in different individuals these rates rates different; but in any one they are alike. Now, why should the whale whale insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenish replenish reservoir of air, ere descending for good? How obvious is it, too, too, this necessity for the whale’s rising exposes him to all the fatal fatal of the chase. For not by hook or by net could this vast vast be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the the Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the great great that strike the victory to thee! thee! man, breathing is incessantly going on—one breath only serving for for or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to to to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the the Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time. time. has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; spout-hole; it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water, water, I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of of seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at at answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so so with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power power smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout—whether it be water water whether it be vapor—no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at at this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no no olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no no no Cologne-water in the sea. sea. as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting spouting and as that long canal—like the grand Erie Canal—is furnished furnished a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of of or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; voice; you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he he through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say? say? have I known any profound being that had anything to say to this this unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a a Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener! listener! the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is is the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along, along, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little little one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down down a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether whether gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout spout the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or whether whether exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and and through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth mouth communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be be that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the the Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, be, in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale’s Whale’s is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he he Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your your you will find that when unmolested, there is an undeviating undeviating between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of of respiration. why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out! out! have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not not water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to to these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the the of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand stand it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely. precisely. central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping enveloping and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, it, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view view his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all all him. And if at such times you should think that you really really drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are are merely condensed from its vapor; or how do you know that they are are those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole spout-hole which is countersunk into the summit of the whale’s head? For For when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with with elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary’s in the desert; even then, then, whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under a a sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with with rain. is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the the nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering peering it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to to fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into into contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which will will happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of of thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer closer with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or or I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm. arm. among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to to it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt doubt that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind blind The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is is let this deadly spout alone. alone. we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My My is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides besides reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations considerations the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I I him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed undisputed that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all other other sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am am that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as as Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes goes a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep deep While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the the to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected reflected a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over over head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep deep after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an an noon; this seems an additional argument for the above above supposition. how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to to him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild mild overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his incommunicable incommunicable and that vapor—as you will sometimes see it—glorified it—glorified a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts. thoughts. d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate irradiate And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my my divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a a ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny; deny; doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts of of things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this this makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who who them both with equal eye. eye. 86. The Tail. Tail. poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope, antelope, the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, celestial, celebrate a tail. tail. the largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that point point the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises comprises its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. feet. compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat flat or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in in At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, overlap, sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy vacancy In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely exquisitely than in the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost utmost in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed exceed feet across. across. entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut cut it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:—upper, it:—upper, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long long horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running running between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as as else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman Roman the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin thin of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful wonderful of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the the strength of the masonry. masonry. as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, enough, whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of of fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins loins running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and and contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent confluent force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point. point. annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it. it. does this—its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful graceful of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through a a of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most most beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or or but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly imposingly strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tied that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved carved and its charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the the sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with with massive chest of the man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. arch. Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what what is there. And whatever they may reveal of the divine love in in Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which which idea has been most successfully embodied; these pictures, so so as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but but mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, which on on hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his his teachings. is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether whether in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it it in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein Therein fairy’s arm can transcend it. it. great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for for Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping; sweeping; in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes. flukes. Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan’s tail acts in a a manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never never In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the the his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled coiled beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is is which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster monster furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by. by. It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only only another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his his with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In In at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the the is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed unobstructed especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply simply No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only only lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the the water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the the and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a a plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the the serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received received the fishery, that they are accounted mere child’s play. Some one one off a frock, and the hole is stopped. stopped. I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale whale sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect respect is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the the trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of of when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft soft moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of of sea; and if he feel but a sailor’s whisker, woe to that sailor, sailor, and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch! touch! this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of of elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with low low presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their their On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not not this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet yet elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his his and extracted the dart. dart. Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the the of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence corpulence his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a a But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of his his are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the the concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a a gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of of from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole. touch-hole. As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes flukes considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely completely of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into into deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are are erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they they shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime _breach_—somewhere _breach_—somewhere to be described—this peaking of the whale’s flukes is perhaps the the sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless bottomless the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the the heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting thrusting his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in in at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the the the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the the Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that that sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east, east, heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with with flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment embodiment adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of of fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African African I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most most of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military military of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks trunks in the profoundest silence. silence. chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the the so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk trunk the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite opposite on an equality, much less the creatures to which they they belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to to so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but the the of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant’s trunk were were the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and and of the sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeated repeated have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their their and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his his balls.* all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and and elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the the stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does does the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of of similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the the will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then then it, jet it forth in a stream. stream. more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my my to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which, which, they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly wholly In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are are mystic gestures, that I have heard hunters who have declared them them to Free-Mason signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these these intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting wanting motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, strangeness, unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I I then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I I not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much much how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my my parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen. seen. I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will will his face, I say again he has no face. face. 87. The Grand Armada. Armada. long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from from territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia. Asia. a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of of Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a vast vast or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia, and and the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded studded archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports sally-ports the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are are straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, chiefly, bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas. seas. narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing standing in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green green known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspond correspond the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and and the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels, jewels, gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental oriental are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such such by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the the however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping all-grasping world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with with domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the the the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these these do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from from endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries centuries by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra Sumatra Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while while freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce renounce claim to more solid tribute. tribute. out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the the shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the the sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the the of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they they received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these these has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present present we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in in waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged. pillaged. a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these these Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and and cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here here there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, Islands, gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season season By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost almost the known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to to upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere everywhere foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Moby in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he he most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it. it. how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his his drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, time, the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs needs sustenance but what’s in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the the While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be be to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries carries cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has a a lake’s contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with with not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She She years’ water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which, which, three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to to before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, casks, the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other other may have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at at score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have have one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating floating like themselves. So that did you carry them the news that that flood had come; they would only answer—“Well, boys, here’s the the ark!” as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of of in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of of ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an an spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and and upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and and to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the the soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils the the cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was was Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game game the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the the cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle spectacle singular magnificence saluted us. us. here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with with of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Sperm instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached detached as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensive extensive sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost almost as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and and for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation of of Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the the that even in the best cruising grounds, you may now now sail for weeks and months together, without being greeted by by single spout; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems seems on thousands. thousands. on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and and a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a a chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the the air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right Right which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the the drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of of Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually continually and falling away to leeward. leeward. from the Pequod’s deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of of sea, this host of vapory spouts, individually curling up into the the and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed showed the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried descried a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height. height. marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains, mountains, their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in in rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the the even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward forward the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their their and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre. centre. all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers harpooneers their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their yet yet boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that that through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy deploy the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their their And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby Moby himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped worshipped in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with with piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathans leviathans us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly loudly attention to something in our wake. wake. to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our our It seemed formed of detached white vapors, rising and falling falling like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so so come and go; for they constantly hovered, without finally finally Levelling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved revolved his pivot-hole, crying, “Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to to the sails;—Malays, sir, and after us!” us!” if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should should have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in in pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the the Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how how kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on on her own chosen pursuit,—mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that that were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in in forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one one bloodthirsty pirates chasing _him_; some such fancy as the above above his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery watery in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that that that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that that that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his his end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates pirates inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with with curses;—when all these conceits had passed through his brain, brain, brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after after stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the the thing from its place. place. thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and and after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the the at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra Sumatra emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the the seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been been upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so so gained upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake wake the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the the neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to to to the boats. But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed presumed instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three three that were after them,—though as yet a mile in their rear,—than rear,—than rallied again, and forming in close ranks and battalions, so that that spouts all looked like flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved moved with redoubled velocity. velocity. to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and and several hours’ pulling were almost disposed to renounce the the when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating animating that they were now at last under the influence of that strange strange of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it it the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns in in they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now now up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus’ elephants in in Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with with In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, circles, aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short thick thick they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This was was more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely completely as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled dismantled on the sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple simple pursued over the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not not have evinced such excessive dismay. But this occasional occasional is characteristic of almost all herding creatures. Though Though together in tens of thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the the have fled before a solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human human how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre’s pit, pit, will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the the crowding, trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each each to death. Best, therefore, withhold any amazement at the the gallied whales before us, for there is no folly of the beasts beasts the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of men. men. many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion, motion, it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor nor but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in in cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone lone on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes’ time, time, harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray spray our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered steered for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part part the whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise wise and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated; anticipated; does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the the For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the the shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a a throb. throb. blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of of to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we we tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by by crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was was a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer steer their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what what it may be locked in and crushed. crushed. not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off off this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away away that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the the Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our our whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no no to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their their duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to to shouting part of the business. “Out of the way, Commodore!” cried cried to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, surface, for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tail, tail, cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed seemed cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity. extremity. whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented invented the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood of of size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each each grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is then then to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line line looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is is among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more more are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But But whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you you kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, you you wing them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure. leisure. it is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into into Our boat was furnished with three of them. The first and and were successfully darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly staggeringly off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towing towing They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball. But But flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy clumsy block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an an tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the the bottom as the seat slid from under him. On both sides the sea sea in at the wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and and in, and so stopped the leaks for the time. time. had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were it it that as we advanced into the herd, our whale’s way greatly greatly moreover, that as we went still further and further from from circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So So when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale whale vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting parting we glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the the as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene serene lake. Here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost outermost were heard but not felt. In this central expanse the sea sea that smooth satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by by subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. moods. we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the the of every commotion. And still in the distracted distance we we the tumults of the outer concentric circles, and saw successive successive of whales, eight or ten in each, swiftly going round and round, round, multiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to to that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched the the ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to the the of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding surrounding embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at at afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the living wall that that us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us us Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by by tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host. host. inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving revolving circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in in one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by by whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square square At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be be might be discovered from our low boat that seemed seemed up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this this because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely purposely up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the herd herd hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its its or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way way and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller smaller and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the the a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still still panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like Like dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, gunwales, touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly suddenly them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched scratched backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the the refrained from darting it. it. far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still still world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended suspended those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the the and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become become The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth depth transparent; and as human infants while suckling will will and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two two lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, nourishment, still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;—even so so the young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not at at as if we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight. sight. on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One One these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a a old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six six in girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed seemed yet recovered from that irksome position it had so lately lately in the maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready ready the final spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar’s bow. bow. delicate side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly freshly the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby’s ears newly arrived arrived foreign parts. parts. line!” cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; “him fast! him him line him! Who struck?—Two whale; one big, one little!” little!” ails ye, man?” cried Starbuck. Starbuck. here,” said Queequeg, pointing down. down. when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds hundreds fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and and the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling spiralling the air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord cord Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to to dam. Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this this line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the the one, so that the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest subtlest of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We We young Leviathan amours in the deep.* deep.* sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but but most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a a which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but but at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an an and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, teats, situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts breasts extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious precious in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter’s lance, the mother’s mother’s milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk milk very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well well strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales whales _more hominum_. hominum_. thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and and did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and and indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled revelled dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of of being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; calm; while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down down deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy. joy. as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic frantic in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats, boats, engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or or carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance abundance room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight sight the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro fro the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is is the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful powerful alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or or his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled short-handled to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again. A A wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not not as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying carrying with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony agony the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the the mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying carrying wherever he went. went. agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling appalling enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed seemed inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first first intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived perceived by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale whale become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run run with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope rope to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the the round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose loose his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning churning the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and and the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own own comrades. terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their their fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake lake to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by by spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to to and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; vanished; more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central central began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was was A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the the masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in in the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner inner as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly Instantly and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern. stern. Oars!” he intensely whispered, seizing the helm—“gripe your your and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off, off, Queequeg—the whale there!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up, up, stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind their backs—scrape backs—scrape away!” away!” boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a a Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate desperate we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way way and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. outlet. many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into into had just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random random all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was was purchased by the loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing in in bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his his by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad broad close by. by. and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon soon itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having having together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their their flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless; useless; the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged drugged might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask Flask killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of of are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at at are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both both mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, possession, the boats of any other ship draw near. near. result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious sagacious in the Fishery,—the more whales the less fish. Of all the the whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for for time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some some craft than the Pequod. Pequod. 88. Schools and Schoolmasters. Schoolmasters. previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Sperm and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those those aggregations. aggregations. though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must must been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are are observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each. each. bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those those almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young young males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated. designated. cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a a of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces evinces gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his his In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about about the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces and and of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and his his is striking; because, while he is always of the largest largest proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not more more one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are are delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen dozen round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the the they are hereditarily entitled to _en bon point_. point_. is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent indolent Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in in search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the the flower of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, returned, from spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating cheating of all unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have have up and down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for for Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so so the other excessive temperature of the year. year. serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange strange sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his his family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan Leviathan that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the the with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases chases away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are are be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do do the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of of bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often often the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with with whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They They with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and and striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their their Not a few are captured having the deep scars of these these heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some some wrenched and dislocated mouths. mouths. supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at at first rush of the harem’s lord, then is it very diverting to watch watch lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and and there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, Lothario, pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines. concubines. other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give give to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish lavish their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the the and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must must care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For For certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my my Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; bower; so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all all the world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as as ardour of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as as lends her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude lassitude the sated Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the the for maidens; our Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, repentant, stage of life, forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to to exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about all alone among the meridians meridians parallels saying his prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from from amorous errors. errors. as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so is is lord and master of that school technically known as the the It is therefore not in strict character, however however satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then then abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. it. title, schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the the bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the the who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read read memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a a that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and and was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of of pupils. pupils. same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale whale himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Sperm Almost universally, a lone whale—as a solitary Leviathan is is an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, Boone, will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to to in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though though keeps so many moody secrets. secrets. schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously previously offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while while female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or or as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious pugnacious all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; encounter; those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, met, these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout. gout. Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like a a of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, wickedness, round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no no underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous riotous at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though, though, when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about about quest of settlements, that is, harems. harems. point of difference between the male and female schools is is more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a a devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike a a of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with with token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as as to fall a prey. prey. 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish. Loose-Fish. allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, one, some account of the laws and regulations of the whale whale of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge. badge. frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company, company, whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killed killed captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised comprised minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For For a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the the may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and and far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a a snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus the the vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between the the were there not some written or unwritten, universal, universal, law applicable to all cases. cases. the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative legislative was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in in 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling whaling yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and and in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse terse surpasses Justinian’s Pandects and the By-laws of the the Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People’s People’s Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne’s farthing, farthing, the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they. they. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it. it. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it. it. what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable admirable of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to to it. it. What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast, fast, it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at at controllable by the occupant or occupants,—a mast, an oar, a a cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the the Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any any recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it it evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as well well their intention so to do. do. are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen whalemen sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks—the knocks—the of the fist. True, among the more upright and and whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where where would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim claim of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But But are by no means so scrupulous. scrupulous. fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigated litigated England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of of whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had had in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of of lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat boat Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up up the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it it the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were were with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs’ plaintiffs’ and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had had he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had had attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore Wherefore plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, whale, harpoons, and boat. boat. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the the In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on to to his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case, case, a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’s wife’s had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in in course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to to possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he then then it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally originally the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of of great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned abandoned yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and and when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then then that subsequent gentleman’s property, along with whatever whatever might have been found sticking in her. her. in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the the and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other. other. pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very very judge in set terms decided, to wit,—That as for the boat, he he it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to to their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale, whale, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because because was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons harpoons line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish) fish) a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards afterwards the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took took fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs. theirs. common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might might object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the the the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws laws quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in in above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, Loose-Fish, say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human human for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of of the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, Philistines, but two props to stand on. on. it not a saying in every one’s mouth, Possession is half of the law: law: is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often often is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of of serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession possession the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow’s widow’s mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain’s marble marble with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? Fast-Fish? is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor poor the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone’s family from from what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the the of Savesoul’s income of £100,000 seized from the scant bread bread cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure sure heaven without any of Savesoul’s help) what is that globular globular but a Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder’s hereditary hereditary and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer, harpooneer, Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic apostolic Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all all is not Possession the whole of the law? law? if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the the doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is is and universally applicable. applicable. was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the the standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and and What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What What to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All All Loose-Fish. are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but but What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is is principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to the the smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but but What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what what you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too? too? 90. Heads or Tails. Tails. balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.” caudam.” l. 3, c. 3._ 3._ from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the the means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of of land, the King, as Honorary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head, head, the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division division in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no no remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to to day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a a anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is is treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle principle prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate separate specially reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first first in curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is is in force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that that within the last two years. years. seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one one the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and and a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from from shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the the of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden. Warden. the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal royal incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment assignment By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so. so. the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his his which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of of them. when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their their rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their their fish high and dry, promising themselves a good £150 from the the oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their their and good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their their shares; up steps a very learned and most Christian and and gentleman, with a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and and it upon the whale’s head, he says—“Hands off! this fish, my my is a Fast-Fish. I seize it as the Lord Warden’s.” Upon this this poor mariners in their respectful consternation—so truly truly not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching their their all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the the But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the the heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone. At At one of them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made made to speak, speak, sir, who is the Lord Warden?” Warden?” Duke.” Duke.” the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?” fish?” is his.” his.” have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is all all to go to the Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for our our but our blisters?” blisters?” is his.” his.” the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of of a livelihood?” livelihood?” is his.” his.” thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of of whale.” whale.” is his.” his.” the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?” half?” is his.” his.” a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of of received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular particular the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be be under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman clergyman the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to to the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To To my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published) published) he had already done so, and received the money, and would be be to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend reverend would decline meddling with other people’s business. Is this this still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three three on all hands coercing alms of beggars? beggars? will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the Duke Duke the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs needs then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested invested that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon Plowdon us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs belongs the King and Queen, “because of its superior excellence.” And by the the commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such such matters. why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason reason that, ye lawyers! lawyers! his treatise on “Queen-Gold,” or Queen-pinmoney, an old King’s Bench Bench one William Prynne, thus discourseth: “Ye tail is ye Queen’s, Queen’s, ye Queen’s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone.” Now this this written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or or whale was largely used in ladies’ bodices. But this same bone is is in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for a a lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be be with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here. here. are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers—the whale whale the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and and supplying the tenth branch of the crown’s ordinary revenue. I I not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by by it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same same as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head head to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be be grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus there there a reason in all things, even in law. law. 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud. Rose-Bud. vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this this insufferable fetor denying not inquiry.” _Sir T. Browne, Browne, V.E._ was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when when were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapory, mid-day sea, that the the noses on the Pequod’s deck proved more vigilant discoverers than than three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell smell smelt in the sea. sea. will bet something now,” said Stubb, “that somewhere hereabouts are are of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they they keel up before long.” long.” the vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance distance a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must must alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours colours his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that that and hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the the alongside must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that that a whale that has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an an corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor odor a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, plague, the living are incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable intolerable is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to to alongside of it. Yet are there those who will still do it; it; the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of of very inferior quality, and by no means of the nature of of attar-of-rose. still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman Frenchman a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of of nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of those those whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of of dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies bodies entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the the place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up up nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted blasted in general. general. Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed he he his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were were round the tail of one of these whales. whales. a pretty fellow, now,” he banteringly laughed, standing in the the bows, “there’s a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes Crappoes Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering lowering boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, yes, sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of of candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they they get won’t be enough to dip the Captain’s wick into; aye, we all all these things; but look ye, here’s a Crappo that is content with with leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too too scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. there. devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let’s make him a a of a little oil for dear charity’s sake. For what oil he’ll get get that drugged whale there, wouldn’t be fit to burn in a jail; no, no, in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I’ll agree to to more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, ours, he’ll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of of it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, yes, I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It’s worth worth Yes, I’m for it;” and so saying he started for the the quarter-deck. this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether whether no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope hope escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, cabin, now called his boat’s crew, and pulled off for the stranger. stranger. across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the the French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in in likeness of a huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for for had copper spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole whole in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon Upon head boards, in large gilt letters, he read “Bouton de de or Rose-bud; and this was the romantic name of this this ship. ship. Stubb did not understand the _Bouton_ part of the inscription, inscription, the word _rose_, and the bulbous figure-head put together, together, explained the whole to him. him. wooden rose-bud, eh?” he cried with his hand to his nose, “that will will very well; but how like all creation it smells!” smells!” in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he he to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close close the blasted whale; and so talk over it. it. then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he he ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that that English?” English?” rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be be chief-mate. chief-mate. then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?” Whale?” whale?” whale?” _White_ Whale—a Sperm Whale—Moby Dick, have ye seen him? him? heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.” Whale—no.” good, then; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.” minute.” rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning leaning the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two two into a trumpet and shouted—“No, Sir! No!” Upon which Ahab Ahab and Stubb returned to the Frenchman. Frenchman. now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the the and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of of bag. the matter with your nose, there?” said Stubb. “Broke it?” it?” wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!” answered answered Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very very “But what are you holding _yours_ for?” for?” nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’t ain’t Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will will Bouton-de-Rose?” Bouton-de-Rose?” in the devil’s name do you want here?” roared the Guernseyman, Guernseyman, into a sudden passion. passion. keep cool—cool? yes, that’s the word! why don’t you pack those those in ice while you’re working at ’em? But joking aside, though; do do know, Rose-bud, that it’s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of of whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn’t a gill in his his carcase.” carcase.” know that well enough; but, d’ye see, the Captain here won’t believe believe this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But But aboard, and mayhap he’ll believe you, if he won’t me; and so I’ll I’ll out of this dirty scrape.” scrape.” to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,” rejoined Stubb, Stubb, with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene scene itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were were the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked worked slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good good All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many many Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up up the mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch catch plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their their Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short short at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it it filled their olfactories. olfactories. was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from from Captain’s round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a a face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from from This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain vain against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself himself the Captain’s round-house (_cabinet_ he called it) to avoid the the but still, could not help yelling out his entreaties and and at times. times. all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the the had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate mate his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who who brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle. pickle. him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man Guernsey-man not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore therefore his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank and and with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan plan both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all all of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little plan plan theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter’s office, office, to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and and for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost uppermost him during the interview. interview. this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a a and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with with whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet velvet with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now now introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put put the aspect of interpreting between them. them. shall I say to him first?” said he. he. said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, “you “you as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me, me, I don’t pretend to be a judge.” judge.” says, Monsieur,” said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his his “that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain captain chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a a whale they had brought alongside.” alongside.” this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more. more. now?” said the Guernsey-man to Stubb. Stubb. since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him him I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command a a than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s a a baboon.” vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, one, far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures conjures as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.” fish.” the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his his to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast cast the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship. ship. now?” said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to to them. let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that—that—in fact, fact, him I’ve diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody somebody else.” says, Monsieur, that he’s very happy to have been of any service to to us.” this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties parties himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into into cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux. Bordeaux. wants you to take a glass of wine with him,” said the interpreter. interpreter. him heartily; but tell him it’s against my principles to drink drink the man I’ve diddled. In fact, tell him I must go.” go.” says, Monsieur, that his principles won’t admit of his drinking; drinking; that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieur Monsieur best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, whales, it’s so calm they won’t drift.” drift.” this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed hailed Guernsey-man to this effect,—that having a long tow-line in his his he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the the whale of the two from the ship’s side. While the Frenchman’s Frenchman’s then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb Stubb towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously ostentatiously out a most unusually long tow-line. tow-line. a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale; whale; his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while while Pequod slid in between him and Stubb’s whale. Whereupon Stubb Stubb pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give give of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his his cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an an in the body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost almost thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at at his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up up Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat’s crew crew all in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking looking anxious as gold-hunters. gold-hunters. all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and and and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning beginning look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, increased, suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a a stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells smells being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then then with another, without at all blending with it for a time. time. have it, I have it,” cried Stubb, with delight, striking something something the subterranean regions, “a purse! a purse!” purse!” his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of of that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old old very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with with thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this, this, friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any any Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably unavoidably in the sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were were not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and come come board, else the ship would bid them good bye. bye. 92. Ambergris. Ambergris. this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an an of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain Captain was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that that For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, day, precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem problem the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound compound grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, amber, at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far far soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. sea. amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, substance, for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris ambergris soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely largely in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and and The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for for same purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter’s in Rome. Rome. wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it. it. would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should should themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a a whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the the and by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to to such a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering administering or four boat loads of Brandreth’s pills, and then running out of of way, as laborers do in blasting rocks. rocks. have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris, ambergris, hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be be trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they were were more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner. manner. that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be be in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that that of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; incorruption; that we are sown in dishonor, but raised in glory. And likewise likewise to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh the the musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of of Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is is worst. worst. should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but but owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against against and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, minds, be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said said the Frenchman’s two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous slanderous has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is is a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing to to They hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this this stigma originate? originate? opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the the whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because Because whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea sea the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh fresh in small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, casks, carry it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those those Seas, and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, exposed, any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking breaking the hold, and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the the dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising arising excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a a Hospital. Hospital. partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be be imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former former of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which which name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great great on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports imports fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to to a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried tried without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a a of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works works in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But But this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a a of four years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with with does not, perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling boiling and in the state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. scentless. truth is, that living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a a are by no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be be as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew Jew the company, by the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be be than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high high taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, it it true, seldom in the open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Sperm flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented musk-scented rustles her dress in a warm parlor. What then shall I liken the the Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude? Must it not be be that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, myrrh, was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great? Great? 93. The Castaway. Castaway. was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most most event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod’s crew; crew; event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes sometimes merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying accompanying of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own. own. in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. boats. few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is is work the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general general these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising comprising boats’ crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, clumsy, timorous wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a a It was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by by Pip by abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before; before; must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so so gloomy-jolly. outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and and white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven driven one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull dull torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at at very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness brightness to his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and and with finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, blacks, year’s calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five sixty-five of Julys and New Year’s Days. Nor smile so, while I write that that little black was brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; brilliancy; yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip loved loved and all life’s peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking panic-striking in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had had sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen, seen, was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to be be illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him him to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland Tolland in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic on on green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned turned round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the the air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, the the diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning cunning would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he he it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, sun, by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences, effulgences, superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest divinest of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from from King of Hell. But let us to the story. story. came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsman after-oarsman so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed; maimed; temporarily, Pip was put into his place. place. first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness; nervousness; happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and and came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing observing took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness courageousness the utmost, for he might often find it needful. needful. upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as as fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which which in this instance, to be right under poor Pip’s seat. The The consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in in out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale whale coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as as become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That That the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly swiftly and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of of boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken taken turns around his chest and neck. neck. stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He He Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, he he its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb, Stubb, interrogatively, “Cut?” Meantime Pip’s blue, choked face face looked, Do, for God’s sake! All passed in a flash. In less than than a minute, this entire thing happened. happened. him, cut!” roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was was saved. soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed by by and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these these cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like, business-like, still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done, done, gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never Never from a boat, Pip, except—but all the rest was indefinite, as the the advice ever is. Now, in general, _Stick to the boat_, is your your motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when _Leap from from boat_, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if if should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be be him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly suddenly all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, “Stick to to boat, Pip, or by the Lord, I won’t pick you up if you jump; mind mind We can’t afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would would for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in in and don’t jump any more.” Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, hinted, though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, animal, propensity too often interferes with his benevolence. benevolence. we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was was very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this this he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started started run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller’s traveller’s Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful, beautiful, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly flatly away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin skin out to the extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s Pip’s head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when when fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him; him; the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless shoreless was between Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor poor turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely lonely though the loftiest and the brightest. brightest. in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the the swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful awful is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the the of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark, Mark, when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea—mark how closely closely hug their ship and only coast along her sides. sides. had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; No; did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake, wake, he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip Pip quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations considerations oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always always by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances instances unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so so is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to to navies and armies. armies. it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly suddenly whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and and boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent intent his fish, that Pip’s ringed horizon began to expand around him him By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; him; from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, such, least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body body but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though. though. carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of of unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes; eyes; the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the the heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous, multitudinous, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters waters the colossal orbs. He saw God’s foot upon the treadle of the the and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So So insanity is heaven’s sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, reason, comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is is and frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, uncompromised, as his God. God. the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that that and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what what abandonment befell myself. myself. 94. A Squeeze of the Hand. Hand. whale of Stubb’s, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to the the side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations operations detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of of Heidelburgh Tun, or Case. Case. some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed in in away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and and the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated manipulated going to the try-works, of which anon. anon. had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with with others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I I it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about about the liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back back fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this this was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener! sweetener! a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it it only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it it to serpentine and spiralise. spiralise. I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter bitter at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under under sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands hands those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost almost the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all all opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that that aroma,—literally and truly, like the smell of spring spring I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky musky I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible inexpressible I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit credit old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in in the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely divinely from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort sort whatsoever. squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm sperm I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a a sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly unwittingly my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking their hands for the the globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving loving did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually continually their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; as as as to say,—Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish cherish social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come; Come; us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into into other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and and of kindness. kindness. that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since since many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all all man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of of felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the the but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the the the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready ready squeeze case eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I I long rows of angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of of spermaceti. while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things things to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the the try-works. comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering tapering of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It It tough with congealed tendons—a wad of muscle—but still contains some some After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first cut cut portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like like of Berkshire marble. marble. is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the the flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and and participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is is most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name name it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked bestreaked and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and and It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason, reason, is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I I behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should should a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have have supposing him to have been killed the first day after the the season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an an fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne. Champagne. is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in in course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling puzzling to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation appellation with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance. substance. is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the the of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. I I it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, case, coalescing. so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but but incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the the glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the the or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those those souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan. Leviathan. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’s whale’s But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’s whaleman’s is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering tapering of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the the is about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along along oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless nameless as of magic, allures along with it all impurities. impurities. to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at at to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its its This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for for blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the the time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a a of terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by by dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They They go in pairs,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The The is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of the same same The gaff is something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the the hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from from as the ship pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the the stands on the sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping it into into portable horse-pieces. This spade is sharp as hone can make it; the the feet are shoeless; the thing he stands on will sometimes sometimes slide away from him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of of own toes, or one of his assistants’, would you be very much much Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men. men. 95. The Cassock. Cassock. you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this this of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the the pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small small a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen seen lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous wondrous in the whale’s huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower lower not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so so you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,—longer than than Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and and as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it it or, rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that that in the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for for which, King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the the and burnt it for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly darkly forth in the 15th chapter of the First Book of Kings. Kings. at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and and by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners mariners it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a a carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the the deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, pelt, an African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt pelt out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as as to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in in rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some some feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two two for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself himself into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full full of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this this alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the the functions of his office. office. office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the the an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, horse, endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath beneath into which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt rapt desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; pulpit; on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a a for a Pope were this mincer!* mincer!* leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates mates the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as as slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of of out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably considerably besides perhaps improving it in quality. quality. 96. The Try-Works. Try-Works. her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly outwardly by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the the solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the the ship. It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were were to her planks. planks. try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most most part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength, strength, to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and and some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The The does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly firmly to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all all and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased cased wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened battened Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in in and each of several barrels’ capacity. When not in use, they they kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstone soapstone sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the the some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil coil away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them—one them—one in each pot, side by side—many confidential communications are are on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound profound meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, Pequod, the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first first struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies bodies along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from from point in precisely the same time. time. the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare bare of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of of furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted fitted heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented prevented communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir reservoir under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel tunnel at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as as as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open direct direct the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment. moment. was about nine o’clock at night that the Pequod’s try-works were were started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee oversee business. business. ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the the This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting thrusting shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said said in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed fed a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of of ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, out, crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still still considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed feed flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming self-consuming once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by by own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is is to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you you live in it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor odor it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells smells the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the the pit. midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the the sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean ocean was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce fierce which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and and every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek Greek The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to to vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the the Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad broad of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and and them in conflagrations. conflagrations. hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide wide in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of of pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship’s stokers. With huge huge poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding scalding or stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, darted, out of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled rolled in sullen heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of of boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. faces. the mouth of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden wooden was the windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the the when not otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the the till their eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawny tawny now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, beards, the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were were revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they they to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror terror in words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards upwards of them, like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their their the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged pronged and dippers; as the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the the groaned and dived, and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further further further into the blackness of the sea and the night, and scornfully scornfully the white bone in her mouth, and viciously spat round her on on sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden laden fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of of seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander’s commander’s soul. seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently silently the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that that in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the the the ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend fiend before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at at begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to to unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a a helm. helm. that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable) inexplicable) occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was was conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller tiller my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of of just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were were I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and and stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all all I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed seemed a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle binnacle illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and and made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, impression, whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to to haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered bewildered as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the the but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in in enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? me? I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was was the ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and the compass. In In instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying flying into the wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and how how the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, and and fatal contingency of being brought by the lee! lee! not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy thy on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first first of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its its makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun, sun, skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking forking the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the the golden, glad sun, the only true lamp—all others but liars! liars! the sun hides not Virginia’s Dismal Swamp, nor Rome’s Rome’s Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of of and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean, ocean, is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this this So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow sorrow him, that mortal man cannot be true—not true, or undeveloped. With With the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the the of all books is Solomon’s, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered hammered of woe. “All is vanity.” ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold hold unchristian Solomon’s wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and and and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of of than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils devils of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais Rabelais passing wise, and therefore jolly;—not that man is fitted to sit sit on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably unfathomably Solomon. Solomon. even Solomon, he says, “the man that wandereth out of the way of of shall remain” (_i.e._, even while living) “in the the of the dead.” Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it it thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom wisdom is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is a a eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest blackest and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny sunny And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is is the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle eagle still higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar. soar. 97. The Lamp. Lamp. you descended from the Pequod’s try-works to the Pequod’s Pequod’s where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single single you would have almost thought you were standing in some some shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay lay their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a a of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes. eyes. merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of of To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in in to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he he the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an an lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night night ship’s black hull still houses an illumination. illumination. with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of of but old bottles and vials, though—to the copper cooler at at try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He He too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore, therefore, state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral astral ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He He and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and and even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own own of game. game. 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up. Up. has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off off from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, moors, slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed towed and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the the of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his his padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in in time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and and his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the the now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of of description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—the romantic proceeding proceeding decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the the where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities, profundities, along beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to to and blow. blow. still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the the casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling rolling way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed slewed and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot scoot the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last last and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, _ex officio_, officio_, sailor is a cooper. cooper. length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the the hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, open, down go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the the are replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up. up. the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable remarkable in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream stream freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous enormous of the whale’s head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie lie as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted besooted the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the the ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din din deafening. deafening. a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this this ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works, try-works, would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a a scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil oil a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the the never look so white as just after what they call an affair of of Besides, from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a a lye is readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back back the whale remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly quickly it. Hands go diligently along the bulwarks, and with with of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness. The soot soot brushed from the lower rigging. All the numerous implements which which been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away. The The hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely completely the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in in nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of of the entire ship’s company, the whole of this conscientious duty duty at last concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own own shift themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the the deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from from the daintiest Holland. Holland. with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and and discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; cambrics; to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not not taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to to musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short short audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and and us napkins! napkins! mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent intent spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soil soil old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot grease-spot Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest severest labors, which know no night; continuing straight through through ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their their with all day rowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck to to vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, slash, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the the fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; try-works; on the heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves themselves cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the the the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, frocks, startled by the cry of “There she blows!” and away they fly to to another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my my but this is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we we by long toilings extracted from this world’s vast bulk its its but valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed cleansed from its defilements, and learned to live here in clean clean of the soul; hardly is this done, when—_There she she ghost is spouted up, and away we sail to fight some other other and go through young life’s old routine again. again. the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two two years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with with along the Peruvian coast last voyage—and, foolish as I am, taught taught a green simple boy, how to splice a rope! rope! 99. The Doubloon. Doubloon. now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck, quarter-deck, regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but in in multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been been how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood, mood, was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely strangely the particular object before him. When he halted before the the with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the the that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of of purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the the then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted riveted coin there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only only with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness. hopefulness. one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly newly by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as as now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in in monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some some significance lurks in all things, else all things are little little and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell sell the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass morass the Milky Way. Way. this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of of heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, sands, head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst amidst the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, spikes, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its its glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour hour by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with with darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless nevertheless sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it it set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however however in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as as white whale’s talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary weary by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he he ever live to spend it. it. those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun sun tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’s sun’s and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving, waving, in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems seems to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by by through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic. poetic. so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy wealthy of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, letters, DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country country in the middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and and after it; and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the the clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the the of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; another; the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of of partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual usual and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at at Libra. this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now now pausing. something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and and other grand and lofty things; look here,—three peaks as proud as as The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the the the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all all Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, globe, like a magician’s glass, to each and every man in turn but but back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for for who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks Methinks this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the the of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out out a former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Born Born throes, ’tis fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So So it, then! Here’s stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then.” then.” fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil’s claws must must left their mouldings there since yesterday,” murmured Starbuck to to leaning against the bulwarks. “The old man seems to read read awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly. inspectingly. goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty, mighty, peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint faint symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over over our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a a If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; soil; if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to to Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we we fain snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! vain! coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will will it, lest Truth shake me falsely.” falsely.” now’s the old Mogul,” soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, “he’s “he’s twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with with which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long. long. all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on on Hill or in Corlaer’s Hook, I’d not look at it very long ere ere it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as as I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons doubloons old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your your of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold gold and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What What should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing killing By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs and and truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the the and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get the almanac and and I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll try try hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the the calendar. Here’s the book. Let’s see now. Signs and and and the sun, he’s always among ’em. Hem, hem, hem; here they they they go—all alive:—Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and and here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheels wheels ’em. Aye, here on the coin he’s just crossing the threshold threshold two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there; there; fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us the the words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That’s my my experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch’s Bowditch’s and Daboll’s arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if if is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! wonders! a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist—hark! By Jove, I have it! it! you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round round and now I’ll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Come, To begin: there’s Aries, or the Ram—lecherous dog, he begets begets then, Taurus, or the Bull—he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, Gemini, the Twins—that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo! lo! Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Virtue, a roaring Lion, lies in the path—he gives a few fierce bites and and dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that’s that’s first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes comes or the Scales—happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we we very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the the stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang whang the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing amusing As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here’s the the Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, rushing, headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours pours his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the the we sleep. There’s a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the the goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and and Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and and alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly’s the word for aye! Adieu, Adieu, But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the the now, and let’s hear what he’ll have to say. There; he’s he’s it; he’ll out with something presently. So, so; he’s beginning.” beginning.” see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises raises certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what’s all this this been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that’s true; and at at cents the cigar, that’s nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won’t won’t dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here’s nine nine and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy ’em out.” out.” I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a a look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of of look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman—the old old he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. sea. luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other other of the mast; why, there’s a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and and he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voice muttering—voice an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!” listen!” the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when when sun stands in some one of these signs. I’ve studied signs, and know know marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch witch Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe horse-shoe for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what’s the the sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign—the roaring and and lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.” thee.” another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in in kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—all Queequeg—all like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the the As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; bone; the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I I as the old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in the back country. country. by Jove, he’s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—I thigh—I it’s Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don’t know what to make make the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’s king’s But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail tail out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. usual. does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the the and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin—fire worshipper, worshipper, upon it. Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip—poor boy! would would had died, or I; he’s half horrible to me. He too has been watching watching of these interpreters—myself included—and look now, he comes to to with that unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him. him. Hark!” look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.” look.” my soul, he’s been studying Murray’s Grammar! Improving his mind, mind, fellow! But what’s that he says now—hist!” now—hist!” look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.” look.” he’s getting it by heart—hist! again.” again.” look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.” look.” that’s funny.” funny.” I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I’m a a especially when I stand a’top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw! caw! caw! caw! caw! Ain’t I a crow? And where’s the scare-crow? There There stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more more into the sleeves of an old jacket.” jacket.” if he means me?—complimentary!—poor lad!—I could go hang hang Any way, for the present, I’ll quit Pip’s vicinity. I can stand stand rest, for they have plain wits; but he’s too crazy-witty for my my So, so, I leave him muttering.” muttering.” the ship’s navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire fire unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what’s the consequence? consequence? again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught’s aught’s to the mast it’s a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old old the White Whale; he’ll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, father, old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver silver grown over in it; some old darkey’s wedding ring. How did it get get And so they’ll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish fish this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters oysters the shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the the miser’ll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes ’mong the worlds worlds Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!” done!” 100. Leg and Arm. Arm. Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London. London. ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?” Whale?” cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours, colours, down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was was in his hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to to stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat’s boat’s He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of of or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round round in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket jacket behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat. surcoat. seen the White Whale?” Whale?” you this?” and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it, it, held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden wooden like a mallet. mallet. my boat!” cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near near by to lower!” lower!” less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his his were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the the But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the the of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his his he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his his and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical mechanical peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and and in any other vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no very very matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it, it, whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on the open sea; sea; the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, bulwarks, then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, So, of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether altogether with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly abjectly to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain uncertain height he could hardly hope to attain. attain. has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward untoward that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his his mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And And the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the the officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the the ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a a of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem seem bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to to their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, minute, the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, stood, out, “I see, I see!—avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing swing the cutting-tackle.” cutting-tackle.” good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two two and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive massive blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. end. was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, all, his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting sitting the fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then then the word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to to his own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running running of the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high high and gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm arm thrust forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, Ahab, out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two two blades) cried out in his walrus way, “Aye, aye, hearty! let let shake bones together!—an arm and a leg!—an arm that never can can d’ye see; and a leg that never can run. Where did’st thou see see White Whale?—how long ago?” ago?” White Whale,” said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards towards East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a a “there I saw him, on the Line, last season.” season.” he took that arm off, did he?” asked Ahab, now sliding down from from capstan, and resting on the Englishman’s shoulder, as he did so. so. he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?” too?” me the yarn,” said Ahab; “how was it?” it?” was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,” Line,” the Englishman. “I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time. time. one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat boat to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went went and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish, dish, sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches breaches the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white milky-white and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.” wrinkles.” was he, it was he!” cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended suspended breath. harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.” fin.” aye—they were mine—_my_ irons,” cried Ahab, exultingly—“but on!” on!” me a chance, then,” said the Englishman, good-humoredly. “Well, “Well, old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all all into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line! fast-line! I see!—wanted to part it; free the fast-fish—an old trick—I know know him.” it was exactly,” continued the one-armed commander, “I do not not but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there there but we didn’t know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled pulled the line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other other that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters matters and what a noble great whale it was—the noblest and biggest I I saw, sir, in my life—I resolved to capture him, spite of the the rage he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would would loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a a of a boat’s crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I I I jumped into my first mate’s boat—Mr. Mounttop’s here (by the the Captain—Mounttop; Mounttop—the captain);—as I was saying, I jumped jumped Mounttop’s boat, which, d’ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with with then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old old have it. But, Lord, look you, sir—hearts and souls souls man—the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat—both eyes eyes befogged and bedeadened with black foam—the whale’s tail tail straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble marble No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday, midday, a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after after second iron, to toss it overboard—down comes the tail like a Lima Lima cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, and, first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was was chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I I hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung clung that like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at at same instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down down a flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near near caught me here” (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); “yes, “yes, me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell’s flames, I was was when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb barb its way along the flesh—clear along the whole length of my my out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;—and that gentleman there there tell you the rest (by the way, captain—Dr. Bunger, ship’s surgeon: surgeon: my lad,—the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the the yarn.” professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all all time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote denote gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but but one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and and trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between between marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, other, casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two two captains. But, at his superior’s introduction of him to Ahab, Ahab, politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain’s bidding. bidding. was a shocking bad wound,” began the whale-surgeon; “and, taking my my Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—” Sammy—” Enderby is the name of my ship,” interrupted the one-armed one-armed addressing Ahab; “go on, boy.” boy.” our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing blazing weather there on the Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; sat sat with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet—” diet—” very severe!” chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly suddenly his voice, “Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till till couldn’t see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half half over, about three o’clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up up me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher, watcher, very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh laugh why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave heave boy, I’d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other other man.” captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir”—said the the godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—“is apt to to facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But But may as well say—en passant, as the French remark—that I myself—that myself—that to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy—am a strict total total man; I never drink—” drink—” cried the captain; “he never drinks it; it’s a sort of fits to to fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on—go on with with arm story.” story.” I may as well,” said the surgeon, coolly. “I was about observing, observing, before Captain Boomer’s facetious interruption, that spite of my my and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; worse; truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; saw; than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead lead In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it it But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is is all rule”—pointing at it with the marlingspike—“that is the the work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had had club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one’s brains out out I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical diabolical sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir”—removing his hat, and and aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull, skull, which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever ever been a wound—“Well, the captain there will tell you how that that here; he knows.” knows.” I don’t,” said the captain, “but his mother did; he was born with with Oh, you solemn rogue, you—you Bunger! was there ever such another another in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in in you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal.” rascal.” became of the White Whale?” now cried Ahab, who thus far had been been listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen. Englishmen. cried the one-armed captain, “oh, yes! Well; after he sounded, we we see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I I then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, trick, some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about about Dick—as some call him—and then I knew it was he.” he.” thou cross his wake again?” again?” “Twice.” could not fasten?” fasten?” want to try to: ain’t one limb enough? What should I do without without other arm? And I’m thinking Moby Dick doesn’t bite so much as he he swallows.” then,” interrupted Bunger, “give him your left arm for bait to to the right. Do you know, gentlemen”—very gravely and mathematically mathematically to each Captain in succession—“Do you know, gentlemen, that the the organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine Divine that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest digest a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the the Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to to a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But But he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of of in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a a let one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a a or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in in tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest that that and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system. system. Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mind mind pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial burial the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale whale another chance at you shortly, that’s all.” all.” thank ye, Bunger,” said the English Captain, “he’s welcome to the the he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him then; but not to to one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once, once, that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I I that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark hark he’s best let alone; don’t you think so, Captain?”—glancing at the the leg. leg. is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let let that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He’s all a a How long since thou saw’st him last? Which way heading?” heading?” my soul, and curse the foul fiend’s,” cried Bunger, stoopingly stoopingly round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; “this man’s man’s the thermometer!—it’s at the boiling point!—his pulse makes makes planks beat!—sir!”—taking a lancet from his pocket, and drawing drawing to Ahab’s arm. arm. roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks—“Man the boat! boat! way heading?” heading?” God!” cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put. put. the matter? He was heading east, I think.—Is your Captain Captain whispering Fedallah. Fedallah. Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to to the boat’s steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle cutting-tackle him, commanded the ship’s sailors to stand by to lower. lower. a moment he was standing in the boat’s stern, and the Manilla men men springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him. him. back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, own, stood upright till alongside of the Pequod. Pequod. 101. The Decanter. Decanter. the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that she she from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby, Enderby, of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of of & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman’s opinion, comes not not behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point point real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our Lord Lord this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous numerous do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted out out first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; Whale; for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant valiant and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets fleets that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not not Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were were first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm Sperm and that for half a century they were the only people of the the globe who so harpooned him. him. 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, purpose, at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Cape and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any any in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one; one; returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, sperm, Amelia’s example was soon followed by other ships, English and and and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were were open. But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable indefatigable again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, their their only knows—and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I I at their expense, the British government was induced to send the the Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South South Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling rattling of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But this this not all. In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship ship their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. Japan. ship—well called the “Syren”—made a noble experimental cruise; and and was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became became known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a a Coffin, a Nantucketer. Nantucketer. honor to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to to present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago ago slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world. world. ship named after him was worthy of the honor, being a very fast fast and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight midnight off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the the It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps—every trumps—every on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that fine fine I had—long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his his heel—it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that that and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever ever sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it it the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it’s it’s off there by Patagonia), and all hands—visitors and all—were all—were to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each each aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our our into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the the gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts masts not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that that had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting bursting the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to to taste. taste. beef was fine—tough, but with body in it. They said it was was others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for for how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial, substantial, globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that that could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were were If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their their out of you like billiard-balls. The bread—but that couldn’t be be besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread bread the only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very very and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you you it. But all in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the the of the cook’s boilers, including his own live parchment parchment fore and aft, I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of of fare and plenty; fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and and from boot heels to hat-band. hat-band. why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other other whalers I know of—not all though—were such famous, hospitable hospitable that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the the and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing? I I tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers is is for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of of whale research, when it has seemed needed. needed. English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Hollanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant extant the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching touching to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English English scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, Hence, the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and and but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some some origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further further elucidated. my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an an Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew knew be about whalers. The title was, “Dan Coopman,” wherefore I I that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam Amsterdam in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was was in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one one Swackhammer.” But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man, man, of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus Claus St. Pott’s, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a a of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as as spied the book, assured me that “Dan Coopman” did not mean “The “The but “The Merchant.” In short, this ancient and learned Low Low book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other other contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery. fishery. in this chapter it was, headed, “Smeer,” or “Fat,” that I found a a detailed list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 180 of Dutch whalemen; from which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, Snodhead, transcribe the following: following: lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock stock 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins firkins butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese cheese an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of of beer. statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in in present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole whole barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer. cheer. the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all this this beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were were suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic Platonic and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of my my touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by by Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen Spitzbergen fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and and cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to their their unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the the of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game game those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux Esquimaux where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of of oil. oil. quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those those fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that that so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen, whalemen, the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not not exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of their their of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, I I we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks’ weeks’ exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin. gin. whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might might them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a a head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem seem improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. But But was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with with constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would would apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his his and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford. Bedford. no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers of of or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English English have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when when in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the the get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the the decanter. 102. A Bower in the Arsacides. Arsacides. in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly chiefly upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail detail some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough thorough comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still still and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters, garters, casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost innermost set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his his skeleton. skeleton. how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the the pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the the Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures lectures the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a a rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land a a whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a a Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been, been, but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; alone; privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, rafters, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of of and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and and in his bowels. bowels. confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far far the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed blessed an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged belonged a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his his or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the the of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my my and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the the of that young cub? cub? as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their their full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted indebted my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides. Arsacides. being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey Dey Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with with lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side sea-side not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his his capital. many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted gifted a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought brought in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his his could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices, devices, shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes; and and these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the the tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores. shores. among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an an long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his his against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings droopings his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of of fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun, sun, the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where where grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it. it. ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebræ were carved with with annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests priests up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again again forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the the lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung hair-hung that so affrighted Damocles. Damocles. was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen; Glen; trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the the earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeous gorgeous on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and and and the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their their branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the the air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the the of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving weaving unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—one weaver!—pause!—one flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all all ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single single with thee! Nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth the the the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, weaver-god, weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal mortal and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; deafened; only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak speak it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken spoken that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words words plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened opened Thereby have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be be for so, in all this din of the great world’s loom, thy thy thinkings may be overheard afar. afar. amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the the white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging—a gigantic idler! Yet, Yet, the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around around the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over over the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but but a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim grim wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories. glories. when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the the an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real real had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as an an of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests priests swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced paced this skeleton—brushed the vines aside—broke through the ribs—and ribs—and a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid its many many shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was out; and and it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered. I saw no no thing within; naught was there but bones. bones. me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the the From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me me the altitude of the final rib, “How now!” they shouted; “Dar’st “Dar’st measure this our god! That’s for us.” “Aye, priests—well, how long long ye make him, then?” But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, them, feet and inches; they cracked each other’s sconces with with yard-sticks—the great skull echoed—and seizing that lucky chance, chance, quickly concluded my own admeasurements. admeasurements. admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be it it that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied fancied I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can can to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell tell in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where where have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise, Likewise, have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they they what the proprietors call “the only perfect specimen of a a or River Whale in the United States.” Moreover, at a place in in England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford Clifford has in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of of size, by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend friend Tranquo’s. Tranquo’s. both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons skeletons were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar similar King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir Sir because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir Sir whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great great of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony bony out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon upon lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and and and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of of at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep peep the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the the in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled unrivalled from his forehead. forehead. skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied copied from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild wild at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving preserving valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished wished other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then then least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did not not myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all all into a congenial admeasurement of the whale. whale. 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton. Skeleton. the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain plain touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton skeleton are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here. here. to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base base Captain Scoresby’s estimate, of seventy tons for the largest sized sized whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful careful I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between between and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty forty in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least least tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would would outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one one one hundred inhabitants. inhabitants. you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to to leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman’s imagination? imagination? already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole, spout-hole, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall now now point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his his bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a a of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the the complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it it this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under under arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion notion the general structure we are about to view. view. length, the Sperm Whale’s skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two seventy-two so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have have ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one one in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two seventy-two his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty fifty of plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less less a third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs ribs once enclosed his vitals. vitals. me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, spine, far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled resembled hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some some of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, otherwise, the time, but a long, disconnected timber. timber. ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck, was was six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each each longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one one the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From From part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only only five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all bore bore seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most most In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay lay bridges over small streams. streams. considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the the so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of of whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of of Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the the which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of of invested body of this particular whale must have been at least least feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more more eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion notion the living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I I saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with with of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for for ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of of weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank! blank! vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try try comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his his attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in in heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his his flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully fully whale be truly and livingly found out. out. the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a a to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now now done, it looks much like Pompey’s Pillar. Pillar. are forty and odd vertebræ in all, which in the skeleton are not not together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a a spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest, a a one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth depth than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the the is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white white I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they they been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest’s children, children, had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the the of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into into child’s play. play. 104. The Fossil Whale. Whale. his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon whereon enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not not him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial imperial Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail, and and yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic gigantic of his intestines, where they lie in him like great cables cables hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a a line-of-battle-ship. I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me to to myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not not the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him him to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him him most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now now to magnify him in an archæological, fossiliferous, and and point of view. Applied to any other creature than the the an ant or a flea—such portly terms might justly be deemed deemed grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case case altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest weightiest of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been been to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have have used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased purchased that purpose; because that famous lexicographer’s uncommon personal personal more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author author me. me. often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject, subject, it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing of of Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard placard Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for an an Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my my of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their their comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole whole of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and and past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas panoramas empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding excluding suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and and theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you you choose a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be be on the flea, though many there be who have tried it. it. entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my my as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I I been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and and wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by by of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the the geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now now completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are are the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate rate links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose whose posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Fossil hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the the preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them them answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet yet akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking taking as Cetacean fossils. fossils. broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bones bones skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, intervals, found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, England, Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. Alabama. the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the the 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street street almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones bones in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon’s Napoleon’s Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some some unknown Leviathanic species. species. by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost almost vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, 1842, the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken awe-stricken slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the the angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and and upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of of being taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned turned that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed departed A significant illustration of the fact, again and again again in this book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but but clue to the shape of his fully invested body. So Owen Owen the monster Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the the Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance, one of the most most creatures which the mutations of the globe have blotted blotted of existence. existence. I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks, tusks, ribs, and vertebræ, all characterized by partial resemblances to to existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on on other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical antichronical their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to to wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for for began with man. Here Saturn’s grey chaos rolls over me, and I I dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when when bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and and all the 25,000 miles of this world’s circumference, not an an hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world world the whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the the lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree pedigree Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh’s. Pharaoh’s. seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I I horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the the terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, time, needs exist after all humane ages are over. over. not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the the plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his his bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim claim them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable unmistakable of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah, some some years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a a and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins, griffins, dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe globe the moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was was swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was was cradled. must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity antiquity the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by by venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller. traveller. far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams Beams which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are are cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, imagine, by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no Whale can can it without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that that either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into into Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon ’em. They keep a a Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the the with its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which which be reached by a Man upon a Camel’s Back. This Rib (says John John is said to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. Their Their affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy’d of Mahomet, came from from Temple, and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas Jonas cast forth by the Whale at the Base of the Temple.” Temple.” this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a a and a whaleman, you will silently worship there. there. 105. Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish? Perish? then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from from head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, whether, the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the the bulk of his sires. sires. upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the the day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are are in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period period to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those those to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier earlier ones. all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the the one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than than feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen, seen, the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a a sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen’s authority, authority, Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the the of capture. capture. may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an an in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may may not be, that since Adam’s time they have degenerated? degenerated? we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of of gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For For tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and and of others which measured eight hundred feet in length—Rope length—Rope and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and and Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy Academy Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or or Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three three and sixty feet. And Lacépède, the French naturalist, in his his history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page (page sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and and feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825. 1825. will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is is big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Pliny Pliny I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so. so. I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies mummies were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not not so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; socks; while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest oldest and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they they drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize prize of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the the of Pharaoh’s fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not not that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated. degenerated. still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more more Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient omniscient at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even even Behring’s straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and and of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along along continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long long so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not not last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the the man, smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final final puff. the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo, buffalo, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the the of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and and with their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous populous where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar dollar inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem seem to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy speedy extinction. you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a a ago—not a good lifetime—the census of the buffalo in Illinois Illinois the census of men now in London, and though at the present day day one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the the of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far far nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious inglorious end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales Whales forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank thank if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the the of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, West, the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness wilderness a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of of mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain slain forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need need could be statistically stated. stated. considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the the extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former former (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in in pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in in the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more more Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, whales, by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense immense so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, yokes, pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but but separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally equally seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whale-bone no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with with hence that species also is declining. For they are only being being from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened enlivened their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been been recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle. spectacle. concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two two fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain remain And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty frosty have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas savannas glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort resort their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers barriers walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed charmed of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man. man. as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one one some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this this havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions. battalions. though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than than have been annually slain on the nor’ west coast by the the alone; yet there are considerations which render even this this of little or no account as an opposing argument in this this matter. as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness populousness the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to to the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the the of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are are as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems seems reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted hunted thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all all successive monarchs of the East—if they still survive there in in numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since since has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as as Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the the of the sea combined. combined. we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity of of their probably attaining the age of a century and more, more, at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations generations be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea of, of, imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of of yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and and who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this this host to the present human population of the globe. globe. for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his his however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas seas the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the the and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah’s flood he he Noah’s Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like like Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will will survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial equatorial spout his frothed defiance to the skies. skies. 106. Ahab’s Leg. Leg. precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel Samuel of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to to own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his his that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And when when gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he so so wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it (it as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough); enough); the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and and that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances appearances yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy. trustworthy. indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his his mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the the of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not not very long prior to the Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that he he been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible; insensible; some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his his limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise stake-wise and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme extreme that the agonizing wound was entirely cured. cured. at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all all anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of of former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most most reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as as sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, felicity, miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than than thought Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief Grief further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of of that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings, that that some natural enjoyments here shall have no children born to them them the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the the of all hell’s despair; whereas, some guilty mortal mortal shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally eternally progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of of there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the the For, thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities felicities have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at at all heartwoes, a mystic significance, and, in some men, an an grandeur; so do their diligent tracings-out not belie the the deduction. To trail the genealogies of these high mortal mortal carries us at last among the sourceless primogenitures of the the so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making suns, and soft soft round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to this: that that gods themselves are not for ever glad. The ineffaceable, sad sad in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the the signers. here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more more in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other other concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, some, it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the the of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such such exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought sought refuge, as it were, among the marble senate of the dead. dead. Peleg’s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means means though, indeed, as touching all Ahab’s deeper part, every every partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory explanatory But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least. least. direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And And only this, but to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, ashore, for any reason, possessed the privilege of a less banned approach approach him; to that timid circle the above hinted casualty—remaining, as it it moodily unaccounted for by Ahab—invested itself with terrors, not not underived from the land of spirits and of wails. So that, that, their zeal for him, they had all conspired, so far as in them them to muffle up the knowledge of this thing from others; and hence it it that not till a considerable interval had elapsed, did it it upon the Pequod’s decks. decks. be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, air, the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not not earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took took practical procedures;—he called the carpenter. carpenter. when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without without set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him him with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which which thus far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful careful of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. secured. done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that that and to provide all the fittings for it, independent of those those to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship’s forge was was to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, and, accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at at to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed. needed. 107. The Carpenter. Carpenter. thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high high man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But But the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they they a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary. hereditary. most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of of high, humane abstraction; the Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate; duplicate; he now comes in person on this stage. stage. all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging belonging whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, extent, experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his his the carpenter’s pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk trunk all those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with with as an auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of of generic remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly singularly in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually continually in a large ship, upon a three or four years’ voyage, in in and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in in duties:—repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the the of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull’s eyes in the deck, or new new in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more more pertaining to his special business; he was moreover moreover expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both both and capricious. capricious. one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold, manifold, his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several several of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times times when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed lashed against the rear of the Try-works. Try-works. belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: hole: carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and and files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage plumage on board, and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of of bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter carpenter a pagoda-looking cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the the concocts a soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars stars be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his his vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the the A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the the drills his ears. Another has the toothache: the carpenter out out and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; there; the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcluded unconcluded whirling round the handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter carpenter him to clap his jaw in that, if he would have him draw the tooth. tooth. this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent indifferent without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he he but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But But now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with with liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue argue uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For For was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal impersonal as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the the infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general general discernible in the whole visible world; which while while active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, peace, ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was was half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an an heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an an crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked unstreaked and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have have to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded bearded of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a a wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had had no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small small clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was a a abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born new-born living without premeditated reference to this world or the next. next. might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him him a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did did seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he he been tutored to it, or by any intermixture of all these, even or or but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal literal He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, one, have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was was one of those unreasoning but still highly useful, _multum in in Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior—though a little little a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of of sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, awls, rulers, nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted wanted use the carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open open part of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him him by the legs, and there they were. were. as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter, carpenter, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a a soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously anomalously its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few few of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there it it abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same same cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept kept a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an an wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his his was a sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking talking the time to keep himself awake. awake. 108. Ahab and the Carpenter. Carpenter. Deck—First Night Watch. Watch. standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of two two busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist is is fixed in the vice. Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws, screws, various tools of all sorts lying about the bench. Forward, the red red of the forge is seen, where the blacksmith is at work._) work._) the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft, soft, that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and and Let’s try another. Aye, now, this works better (_sneezes_). (_sneezes_). this bone dust is (_sneezes_)—why it’s (_sneezes_)—yes it’s it’s my soul, it won’t let me speak! This is what an old old gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and you you get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don’t get it it Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let’s let’s that ferule and buckle-screw; I’ll be ready for them presently. presently. now (_sneezes_) there’s no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle puzzle little; but a mere shinbone—why it’s easy as making hop-poles; only I I like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the the I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (_sneezes_) (_sneezes_) to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs legs seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water, water, do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored doctored with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; before before saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether the the will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’s that’s heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’s that’s certain. (_advancing_). (_During the ensuing scene, the carpenter continues continues at times._) times._) manmaker! manmaker! in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length. length. me measure, sir. sir. for a leg! good. Well, it’s not the first time. About it! it! keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here, here, let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some. some. sir, it will break bones—beware, beware! beware! fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery slippery that can hold, man. What’s Prometheus about there?—the there?—the I mean—what’s he about? about? must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now. now. It’s a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a a red flame there! there! sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work. work. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that old old Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a a and animated them with fire; for what’s made in fire must must belong to fire; and so hell’s probable. How the soot flies! flies! must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter, Carpenter, he’s through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel steel there’s a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack. pack. Sir? while Prometheus is about it, I’ll order a complete man after a a pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest chest after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to ’em, to stay stay one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all, all, forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let let see—shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on on of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away. away. what’s he speaking about, and who’s he speaking to, I should like like know? Shall I keep standing here? (_aside_). (_aside_). but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here’s one. No, No, no; I must have a lantern. lantern. ho! That’s it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn. turn. art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man? man? light is worse than presented pistols. pistols. thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter. carpenter. why that’s—but no;—a very tidy, and, I may say, an extremely extremely sort of business thou art in here, carpenter;—or would’st would’st rather work in clay? clay? clay, sir? That’s mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir. sir. fellow’s impious! What art thou sneezing about? about? is rather dusty, sir. sir. the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under under people’s noses. noses. ah!—I guess so;—yes—oh, dear! dear! ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good good workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well for for work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall shall feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that that carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst Canst not drive that old Adam away? away? sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard heard curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never never loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still still him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir? sir? is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once once so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the the Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to to hair, do I. Is’t a riddle? riddle? should humbly call it a poser, sir. sir. then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing thing not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where where now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most most hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’t don’t And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be be so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the the pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah! Hah! Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over over I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir. sir. ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before the the is done? done? an hour, sir. sir. away at it then, and bring it to me (_turns to go_). Oh, Life! Life! I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this this for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal mortal which will not do away with ledgers. I would be free free air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books. I am so rich, I could could given bid for bid with the wealthiest Prætorians at the auction of of Roman empire (which was the world’s); and yet I owe for the flesh flesh the tongue I brag with. By heavens! I’ll get a crucible, and into into and dissolve myself down to one small, compendious vertebra. So. So. (_resuming his work_). work_). well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says says queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer; queer; queer, says Stubb; he’s queer—queer, queer; and keeps dinning it it Mr. Starbuck all the time—queer—sir—queer, queer, very queer. And And his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here’s his bedfellow! has has stick of whale’s jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he’ll he’ll on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three three and all three places standing in one hell—how was that? Oh! I I wonder he looked so scornful at me! I’m a sort of of sometimes, they say; but that’s only haphazard-like. haphazard-like. a short, little old body like me, should never undertake to wade wade into deep waters with tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks chucks under the chin pretty quick, and there’s a great cry for for And here’s the heron’s leg! long and slim, sure enough! enough! for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, and that must be be they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old lady uses her her old coach-horses. But Ahab; oh he’s a hard driver. Look, Look, one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears wears bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there, you Smut! bear a hand there there those screws, and let’s finish it before the resurrection fellow fellow a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as as go round collecting old beer barrels, to fill ’em up again. again. a leg this is! It looks like a real live leg, filed down to to but the core; he’ll be standing on this to-morrow; he’ll be be altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the little oval slate, slate, ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So, so; chisel, file, file, sand-paper, now! now! 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin. Cabin. to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no no oil came up with the water; the casks below must have have a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into into cabin to report this unfavourable affair.* affair.* Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it it a regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and and the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying varying is removed by the ship’s pumps. Hereby the casks are sought sought be kept damply tight; while by the changed character of the the water, the mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the the cargo. cargo. from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and and Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from from China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a a chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and and separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the the islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new new leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long long of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with with back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his his courses again. again. there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round round it. “On deck! Begone!” Begone!” Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. sir. must up Burtons and break out.” out.” Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here here a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?” hoops?” do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make make in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth worth sir.” sir.” it is, so it is; if we get it.” it.” was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir.” sir.” I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it it I’m all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky leaky but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that’s a far far plight than the Pequod’s, man. Yet I don’t stop to plug my leak; leak; who can find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, it, if found, in this life’s howling gale? Starbuck! I’ll not have the the hoisted.” hoisted.” will the owners say, sir?” sir?” the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What What Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck, Starbuck, those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But But ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye, ye, conscience is in this ship’s keel.—On deck!” deck!” Ahab,” said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, cabin, a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost almost not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward outward of itself, but within also seemed more than half half of itself; “A better man than I might well pass over in in what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in in happier, Captain Ahab.” Ahab.” Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?—On me?—On deck!” sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir—to be forbearing! forbearing! we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?” Ahab?” seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most most cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck, Starbuck, “There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one one that is lord over the Pequod.—On deck!” deck!” an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, cheeks, would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of of levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, and and he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: “Thou hast hast not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware beware Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; Ahab; of thyself, old man.” man.” waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!” that!” Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. “What’s that he said—Ahab said—Ahab of Ahab—there’s something there!” Then unconsciously using the the for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little little but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and and the gun to the rack, he went to the deck. deck. art but too good a fellow, Starbuck,” he said lowly to the mate; mate; raising his voice to the crew: “Furl the t’gallant-sails, and and the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton, Burton, break out in the main-hold.” main-hold.” were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting respecting Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him; him; mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously imperiously the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, transient, the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders orders executed; and the Burtons were hoisted. hoisted. 110. Queequeg in His Coffin. Coffin. searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold hold perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it it calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the the of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight midnight those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they they and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost lowermost that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone corner-stone containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted posted vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. flood. after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of of and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the the decks were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under under as if you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and and in the sea like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the the as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was was that the Typhoons did not visit them then. then. at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast fast Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh nigh his endless end. end. it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown; unknown; and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the the you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as as must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but—as but—as have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and and descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all all in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the the casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen, whalemen, harpooneers are the holders, so called. called. Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should should stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where, where, to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about about that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom bottom a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor poor where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he he a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after after days’ suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill sill the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few few days, till there seemed but little left of him but his his and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his his grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller fuller fuller; they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but but looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony testimony that immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And And circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his his seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe awe cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of of waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any any who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly truly and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And And drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all all a last revelation, which only an author from the dead could could tell. So that—let us say it again—no dying Chaldee or Greek Greek higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you you creeping over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his his hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his his rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and and towards his destined heaven. heaven. a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, himself, he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he he He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was was breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had had to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich rich of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all all who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes, canoes, that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was was unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead dead stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated floated to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the the are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own own uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form form white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at the the of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual usual tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks. sharks. he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial congenial him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes coffin-canoes without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and and lee-way adown the dim ages. ages. when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter carpenter at once commanded to do Queequeg’s bidding, whatever it might might There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, aboard, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal aboriginal of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin coffin recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of the the than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent indifferent of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took took measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg’s Queequeg’s as he shifted the rule. rule. poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,” ejaculated the Long Island Island sailor. to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general general now transferringly measured on it the exact length the the was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two two at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his his and to work. work. the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he he shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring inquiring they were ready for it yet in that direction. direction. the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the people people deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one’s one’s commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to to nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some some men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will will trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be be indulged. over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with an an eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock stock from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along along one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also, also, were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh fresh was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up up the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for for pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that that might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without without a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his his god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo Yojo he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed placed him. The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay lay in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in in “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and and to be replaced in his hammock. hammock. ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all all while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took took by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine. tambourine. rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where where ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where where beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little little for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think think in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he he be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found found Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your your march.” march.” have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, “that in in fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and and when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their their forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken spoken their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor poor in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers vouchers all our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?—Hark! he he again: but more wildly now.” now.” two and two! Let’s make a General of him! Ho, where’s his his Lay it across here.—Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game game now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!—mind ye ye Queequeg dies game!—take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies dies I say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; coward; all a’shiver;—out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the the he’s a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he he from a whale-boat! I’d never beat my tambourine over base Pip, Pip, hail him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame shame all cowards—shame upon them! Let ’em go drown like Pip, that that from a whale-boat. Shame! shame!” shame!” all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip Pip led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock. hammock. now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now now his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon soon seemed no need of the carpenter’s box: and thereupon, when some some their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the the of his sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, he he just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone; undone; therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet, yet, averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter matter his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a a it was Queequeg’s conceit, that if a man made up his mind to to mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, gale, some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort. sort. there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized; civilized; while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing, convalescing, speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day. day. in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after after on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a a appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms arms legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then then into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, harpoon, himself fit for a fight. fight. a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and and into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there. there. spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of of figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was was in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on on body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet prophet seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written written on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a a treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in in own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one one but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own own heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore therefore in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon whereon were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought thought must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, his, one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—“Oh, Queequeg—“Oh, tantalization of the gods!” gods!” 111. The Pacific. Pacific. gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great great Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear dear with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my my was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a a leagues of blue. blue. is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently gently stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those those undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St. St. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery watery and Potters’ Fields of all four continents, the waves should should and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of of shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all all we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing tossing slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by by restlessness. restlessness. any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must must after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of of world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same same wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday yesterday by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still still skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between between milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown unknown and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine divine zones the world’s whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to to seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal eternal you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan. Pan. few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab’s brain, as standing like an iron iron at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one one he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles isles whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other other inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in in the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at at upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese Japanese the old man’s purpose intensified itself. His firm firm met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead’s veins veins like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran ran the vaulted hull, “Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick thick blood!” 112. The Blacksmith. Blacksmith. himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in in latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits pursuits to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old old had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after after his contributory work for Ahab’s leg, but still retained it it deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost almost invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do do little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their their weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an an circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, boat-spades, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every every movement, as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man’s was a a hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no no did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over over further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil toil life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating beating his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable! miserable! peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing appearing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the the of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted persisted he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every every now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate. fate. and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the road road between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt felt deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning, leaning, barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both both Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four four of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied uncatastrophied act of the grief of his life’s drama. drama. was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly postponedly that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had been been artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house house garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three three ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church, church, in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further further in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into into happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to to the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into into family’s heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of of fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, Now, prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith’s shop was was the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so so always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no no nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing ringing her young-armed old husband’s hammer; whose reverberations, muffled muffled passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, unsweetly, her nursery; and so, to stout Labor’s iron lullaby, the blacksmith’s blacksmith’s were rocked to slumber. slumber. woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? timely? thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came came him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her her a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after after and all of them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked plucked some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely solely the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than than old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him him to harvest. harvest. tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew grew and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the the the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, eyes, gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows bellows the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother mother down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed followed thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a a in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to to curls! curls! seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death Death only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but but first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the the the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of of men, who still have left in them some interior compunctions compunctions suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean ocean spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking taking and wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of of Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them—“Come hither, hither, here is another life without the guilt of intermediate intermediate here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come Come bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and and landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put put _thy_ gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till till marry thee!” thee!” to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by by of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth Perth a-whaling. a-whaling. 113. The Forge. Forge. matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about about Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter latter upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the the and with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came came carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While While a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last, last, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights, flights, of which flew close to Ahab. Ahab. these thy Mother Carey’s chickens, Perth? they are always flying flying thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;—look here, they they but thou—thou liv’st among them without a scorch.” scorch.” I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab,” answered Perth, resting resting a moment on his hammer; “I am past scorching; not easily can’st can’st scorch a scar.” scar.” well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful woeful me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others others is not mad. Thou should’st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou thou go mad? How can’st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens heavens hate thee, that thou can’st not go mad?—What wert thou making making there?” an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it.” it.” can’st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard hard as it had?” had?” think so, sir.” sir.” I suppose thou can’st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never never how hard the metal, blacksmith?” blacksmith?” sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.” one.” ye here, then,” cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning leaning both hands on Perth’s shoulders; “look ye here—_here_—can ye ye out a seam like this, blacksmith,” sweeping one hand across his his brow; “if thou could’st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my my upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes. eyes. Can’st thou smoothe this seam?” seam?” that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?” one?” blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for for thou only see’st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into into bone of my skull—_that_ is all wrinkles! But, away with child’s child’s no more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!” jingling the the bag, as if it were full of gold coins. “I, too, want a harpoon harpoon one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; Perth; that will stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There’s the the flinging the pouch upon the anvil. “Look ye, blacksmith, these these the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses.” horses.” stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the the and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.” work.” know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the the bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me me twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer hammer twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! Quick! blow the fire.” fire.” at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by by them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. “A “A rejecting the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.” Perth.” done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when when stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then, then, regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to to the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge forge up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and and over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or or blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside. aside. that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?” muttered muttered looking on from the forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like a a and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.” powder-pan.” last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as as to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near near the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face. face. thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain; pain; I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?” then?” God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this this for the White Whale?” Whale?” the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them them man. Here are my razors—the best of steel; here, and make the the sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.” Sea.” a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would would not use them. them. them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, sup, pray till—but here—to work!” work!” at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the the the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the the was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to to them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near. near. no—no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy, Ahoy, Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me me much blood as will cover this barb?” holding it high up. A cluster cluster dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen heathen and the White Whale’s barbs were then tempered. tempered. non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!” diaboli!” howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the the blood. blood. mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of of with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the the of the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some some of it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. tension. his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, harp-string, eagerly bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, exclaimed, and now for the seizings.” seizings.” one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns yarns all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole pole then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope rope traced half-way along the pole’s length, and firmly secured so, so, intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope—like the the Fates—remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with with weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory hickory both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his his light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was was Oh, Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy thy mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the the ship, and mocked it! it! 114. The Gilder. Gilder. further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising cruising the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild, mild, weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on on stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or or or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or or minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small small for their pains. pains. such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow slow swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so so mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone hearth-stone they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy dreamy when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the the skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and and not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a a fang. fang. are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a a filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he he it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing revealing the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high high waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when when western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while their their bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure. verdure. long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these these steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied play-wearied lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when when flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most most mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate, interpenetrate, form one seamless whole. whole. did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as as an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem seem open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath breath them prove but tarnishing. tarnishing. grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in in long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,—in ye, ye, yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some some fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them. them. to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling mingling of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a a for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this this we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one one infancy’s unconscious spell, boyhood’s thoughtless thoughtless adolescence’ doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then then resting at last in manhood’s pondering repose of If. But But gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and and and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor unmoor more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will will weary? Where is the foundling’s father hidden? Our souls are like like orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of of paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it. it. that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat’s side into that that golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:— murmured:— unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride’s bride’s me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping kidnapping ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep deep and do believe.” believe.” Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same same light:— light:— am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that that has always been jolly!” jolly!” 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor. Bachelor. jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down down the wind, some few weeks after Ahab’s harpoon had been welded. welded. was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her her cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in in holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, vain-gloriously, round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous previous pointing her prow for home. home. three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red red at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, suspended, down; and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long long jaw of the last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks jacks all colours were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways Sideways in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; sperm; which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of of same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen brazen lamp. was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most most success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in in same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without without a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been been away to make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional additional casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; met; these were stowed along the deck, and in the captain’s and and state-rooms. Even the cabin table itself had been knocked knocked kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an an lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece. In the the the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, chests, filled them; it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a a on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged plugged spare coffee-pot and filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the the of their irons and filled them; that indeed everything was was with sperm, except the captain’s pantaloons pockets, and those those reserved to thrust his hands into, in self-complacent testimony of of entire satisfaction. satisfaction. this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the the sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing drawing nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge huge which, covered with the parchment-like _poke_ or stomach skin skin the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the the hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and and were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with with from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, boat, secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Long negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were were over the hilarious jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship’s ship’s were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try-works, from from the huge pots had been removed. You would have almost thought thought were pulling down the cursed Bastille, such wild cries they they as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled into the the sea. and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the the elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was was before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual individual diversion. Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, black, a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other’s other’s all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings forebodings to things to come—their two captains in themselves impersonated the the striking contrast of the scene. scene. aboard, come aboard!” cried the gay Bachelor’s commander, lifting lifting glass and a bottle in the air. air. seen the White Whale?” gritted Ahab in reply. reply. only heard of him; but don’t believe in him at all,” said the the good-humoredly. “Come aboard!” aboard!” art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?” men?” enough to speak of—two islanders, that’s all;—but come aboard, old old come along. I’ll soon take that black from your brow. Come Come will ye (merry’s the play); a full ship and homeward-bound.” homeward-bound.” wondrous familiar is a fool!” muttered Ahab; then aloud, “Thou art art full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an an ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward Forward Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!” wind!” thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other other fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew crew the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the the Bachelor; but the Bachelor’s men never heeding their gaze for for lively revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the the eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket a a vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed seemed bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was was with Nantucket soundings. soundings. 116. The Dying Whale. Whale. seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favourites favourites close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the the breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed seemed with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor, Bachelor, were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab. Ahab. was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the the fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sky, and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and and plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy rosy that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent convent of the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned turned had gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns. hymns. again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned sterned from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the the tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm sperm dying—the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring—that expiring—that spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab Ahab a wondrousness unknown before. before. turns and turns him to it,—how slowly, but how steadfastly, his his and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too too fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!—Oh sun!—Oh these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights. sights. here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe; in in most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks rocks tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still still on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the the unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; faith; see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it it some other way. way. thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded builded separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas; seas; art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the the Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor Nor this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round round without a lesson to me. me. trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, aspiring, jet!—that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In In oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening all-quickening that only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, thou, half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy thy imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of of living things, exhaled as air, but water now. now. hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild wild finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though though and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!” foster-brothers!” 117. The Whale Watch. Watch. four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to to one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These These three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one one not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay lay its side all night; and that boat was Ahab’s. Ahab’s. waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale’s spout-hole; and and lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon upon black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which which chafed the whale’s broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach. beach. and all his boat’s crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who who in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played played the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A A like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven unforgiven of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air. air. from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and and round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a a world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he. he. the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor nor can be thine?” thine?” who are hearsed that die on the sea?” sea?” I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two two must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by by hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in in America.” aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes plumes over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a a we shall not soon see.” see.” it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.” man.” what was that saying about thyself?” thyself?” it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.” pilot.” when thou art so gone before—if that ever befall—then ere I can can thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?—Was it not so? so? then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two two that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.” it.” another pledge, old man,” said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up up fire-flies in the gloom—“Hemp only can kill thee.” thee.” gallows, ye mean.—I am immortal then, on land and on sea,” cried cried with a laugh of derision;—“Immortal on land and on sea!” sea!” were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the the crew arose from the boat’s bottom, and ere noon the dead dead was brought to the ship. ship. 118. The Quadrant. Quadrant. season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab, Ahab, from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would would handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to to braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed fixed the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship’s ship’s for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon upon noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was was taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his his latitude. in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of of That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing blazing of the glassy ocean’s immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks looks clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this this of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of of throne. Well that Ahab’s quadrant was furnished with coloured coloured through which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging swinging seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his his instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that that for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun sun gain its precise meridian. Meantime while his whole attention attention absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship’s deck, deck, with face thrown up like Ahab’s, was eyeing the same sun with him; him; the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs, and his wild face was was to an earthly passionlessness. At length the desired desired was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab Ahab calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant. Then Then into a moment’s revery, he again looked up towards the sun and and to himself: “Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thou thou me truly where I _am_—but canst thou cast the least hint where where _shall_ be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is is moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou must be be him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is even now now him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally beholding beholding objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!” sun!” gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its its cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered: muttered: toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, Commodores, Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but but after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where where thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that that thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of of or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy thy thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; toy; cursed be all the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven, heaven, live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now now with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon horizon the glances of man’s eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as as God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou thou dashing it to the deck, “no longer will I guide my earthly earthly by thee; the level ship’s compass, and the level dead-reckoning, by by and by line; _these_ shall conduct me, and show me my place on the the Aye,” lighting from the boat to the deck, “thus I trample on thee, thee, paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and and thee!” thee!” the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and and feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a a despair that seemed meant for himself—these passed over the the motionless Parsee’s face. Unobserved he rose and glided away; away; awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered clustered on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, deck, out—“To the braces! Up helm!—square in!” in!” an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon upon heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her her ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one one steed. steed. between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod’s Pequod’s way, and Ahab’s also, as he went lurching along the deck. deck. have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full full its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of of what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!” ashes!” cried Stubb, “but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr. Mr. not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab Ahab ‘Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of of swears that I must play them, and no others.’ And damn me, Ahab, Ahab, thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!” it!” 119. The Candles. Candles. climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal Bengal in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most most but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows knows that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in in resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of of storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that that sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town. town. evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and and was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly directly When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the the and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts masts here and there with the rags which the first fury of the the had left for its after sport. sport. by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at at flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional additional might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb Stubb Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer firmer of the boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted lifted the very top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did did escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling reeling high teetering side, stove in the boat’s bottom at the stern, stern, left it again, all dripping through like a sieve. sieve. work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck, wreck, the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You You Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, leaps, round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, me, the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But But mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;”—(_sings_.) says;”—(_sings_.) jolly is the gale, And a joker is the whale, A’ flourishin’ his his Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the the oh! oh! scud all a flyin’, That’s his flip only foamin’; When he stirs in in spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, lad, the Ocean, oh! oh! splits the ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin’ of of flip,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, lad, the Ocean, oh! oh! Stubb,” cried Starbuck, “let the Typhoon sing, and strike his his here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold hold peace.” peace.” I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward; coward; I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr. Mr. there’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my my And when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a a wind-up.” look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own.” own.” how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never never how foolish?” foolish?” cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his his towards the weather bow, “markest thou not that the gale comes comes the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the the course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where where that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand—his stand—his is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou thou must! don’t half understand ye: what’s in the wind?” wind?” yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to to soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb’s Stubb’s “The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it it a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward, windward, is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward—I see it lightens up up but not with the lightning.” lightning.” that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following following flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same same a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead. overhead. there?” there?” Thunder!” said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his his but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed elbowed of fire. fire. as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off off perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some some carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But But this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may may all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly constantly there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering interfering a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the the way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a a lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made made long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the the outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require. require. rods! the rods!” cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished admonished vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting darting to light Ahab to his post. “Are they overboard? drop them them fore and aft. Quick!” Quick!” cried Ahab; “let’s have fair play here, though we be the the side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and and that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let Let be, sir.” sir.” aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! the corpusants!” corpusants!” the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each each lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of of three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like like gigantic wax tapers before an altar. altar. the boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing swashing heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently violently his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but slipping slipping on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and and shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on us us all!” sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of of calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses curses the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething seething but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when when burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His “Mene, Mene, Mene, Upharsin” has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage. cordage. this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the the crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle, all all eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away away of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the the jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and and the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted parted of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely strangely as if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by by preternatural light, Queequeg’s tattooing burned like Satanic blue blue on his body. body. tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more more Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment moment two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. one. was Stubb. “What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not not same in the song.” song.” no, it wasn’t; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I I they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?—have faces?—have no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck—but it’s too dark dark look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign sign good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be be a’ block with sperm-oil, d’ye see; and so, all that sperm will will up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will will be as three spermaceti candles—that’s the good promise we saw.” saw.” that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb’s face slowly beginning beginning glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: “See! see!” and once once the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled redoubled in their pallor. pallor. corpusants have mercy on us all,” cried Stubb, again. again. the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, flame, Parsee was kneeling in Ahab’s front, but with his head bowed away away him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where where had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen, seamen, by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a a of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various various attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running running in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all all eyes upcast. upcast. aye, men!” cried Ahab. “Look up at it; mark it well; the white white but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast mainmast there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against against blood against fire! So.” So.” turning—the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot foot the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, arm, stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames. flames. thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian Persian did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that that this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I I know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor nor wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and and are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless, speechless, power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will will its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of of personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a a at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while I I live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal royal But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of of and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere mere power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted full-freighted there’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou thou spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of of I breathe it back to thee.” thee.” repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leap leap to thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closes closes eyes, his right hand pressed hard upon them._] them._] own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung wrung me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can can grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the the of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The The flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my my beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning stunning Oh, oh! Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though though be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of of leaping out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? not? burn the flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my my But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know know Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but but is greater. Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself thyself certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself thyself I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou thou There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear clear to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness creativeness Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly dimly it. Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast hast incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with with agony, I read my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap leap thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly defyingly worship thee!” thee!” boat! the boat!” cried Starbuck, “look at thy boat, old man!” man!” harpoon, the one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashed lashed its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat’s whale-boat’s but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather leather to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a a flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there there a serpent’s tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm—“God, God is is thee, old man; forbear! ’tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill ill let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a a wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this.” this.” Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the the not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast aghast thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But But the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the the harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to to with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope’s end. end. by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart dart he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:— spoke:— your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and and soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye ye know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out out last fear!” And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the the flame. in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of of lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it it much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for for so at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners did did from him in a terror of dismay. dismay. 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch. Watch. standing by the helm. Starbuck approaching him._ him._ must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working working and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?” sir?” nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up up now.” God’s name!—sir?” name!—sir?” “Well.” anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?” inboard?” nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises, rises, it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.—By it.—By and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some some smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest Loftiest were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now now amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards cowards down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft aloft I would e’en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic colic a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!” medicine!” 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks. Bulwarks. and Flask mounted on them, and passing additional lashings over over anchors there hanging._ hanging._ Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but but will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how how ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn’t you once say say whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra extra its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder powder aft and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn’t you say say so?” suppose I did? What then? I’ve part changed my flesh since that that why not my mind? Besides, supposing we _are_ loaded with powder powder aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get get in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have pretty pretty hair, but you couldn’t get afire now. Shake yourself; you’re you’re or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat coat Don’t you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine Marine companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. Flask. hark, again, and I’ll answer ye the other thing. First take your your off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the the now listen. What’s the mighty difference between holding a mast’s mast’s in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn’t hasn’t any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don’t you see, you you that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the the is first struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship in in hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man, and all of us,—were in no no danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten ten ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose suppose would have every man in the world go about with a small small running up the corner of his hat, like a militia militia skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash. Why Why ye be sensible, Flask? it’s easy to be sensible; why don’t ye, ye, any man with half an eye can be sensible.” sensible.” don’t know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard.” hard.” when a fellow’s soaked through, it’s hard to be sensible, that’s that’s fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the the there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors anchors as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two two here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And And big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron iron hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the the is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long long though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next next touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, say, wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at at so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought always always be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, way, to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; the the form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and and for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a a so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly! unmannerly! is a nasty night, lad.” lad.” 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning. Lightning. main-top-sail yard_.—_Tashtego passing new lashings around it_. it_. um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What’s What’s use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don’t want thunder; we want rum; rum; us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!” um!” 123. The Musket. Musket. the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod’s Pequod’s tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by by spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached attached it—for they were slack—because some play to the tiller was was indispensable. a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock shuttlecock the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the the at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the the at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice notice whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a a that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted unwonted emotion. hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the the exertions of Starbuck and Stubb—one engaged forward and the the aft—the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails main-top-sails cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like like feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds winds that storm-tossed bird is on the wing. wing. three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a a was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through through water with some precision again; and the course—for the present, present, he was to steer, if practicable, was once more more to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only only according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the the as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, meanwhile, a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul foul became fair! fair! the yards were squared, to the lively song of “_Ho! the fair fair oh-ye-ho, cheerly men!_” the crew singing for joy, that so so an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents portents it. it. compliance with the standing order of his commander—to report report and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided decided in the affairs of the deck,—Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the the to the breeze—however reluctantly and gloomily,—than he he went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance. circumstance. knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it a a The cabin lamp—taking long swings this way and that—was burning burning and casting fitful shadows upon the old man’s bolted door,—a door,—a one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels. The The subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence silence reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the the The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as as stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an an upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when when saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so so with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he he knew it for itself. itself. would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, there’s the very very that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let me me it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly deadly strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, Aye, and powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll I’ll myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I come come report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and and fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair fair that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one; one; one—I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing thing handle now.—Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say say will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his his quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his his by mere dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very very did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But But this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship’s ship’s down to doom with him?—Yes, it would make him the wilful wilful of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; harm; come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have have way. If, then, he were this instant—put aside, that crime would not not his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just there,—in there, there, sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again. I I withstand thee, then, old man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; remonstrance; entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest. Flat Flat to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest. Aye, Aye, say’st the men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us are Ahabs. Ahabs. God forbid!—But is there no other way? no lawful way?—Make him a a to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man’s living living from his own living hands? Only a fool would try it. Say he were were even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down to to on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a caged caged then. I could not endure the sight; could not possibly fly his his all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave me me the long intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land is is of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. I stand alone alone upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me me law.—Aye, aye, ’tis so.—Is heaven a murderer when its lightning lightning a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin skin would I be a murderer, then, if”—and slowly, stealthily, stealthily, half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket’s end against against door. door. this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. A A and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.—Oh again.—Oh Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if I wake thee not to death, old man, man, can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck’s body this day week may may with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall shall wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails topsails reefed and set; she heads her course.” course.” all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!” last!” were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man’s man’s sleep, as if Starbuck’s voice had caused the long dumb dream dream speak. speak. yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard’s arm against the panel; panel; seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he he the death-tube in its rack, and left the place. place. too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell tell I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.” say.” 124. The Needle. Needle. morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of of bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on on giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded abounded that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world world before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the the sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; place; his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned crowned kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a a of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat. heat. maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time time tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to to the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly profoundly by the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun’s rearward rearward and how the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating undeviating wake. ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot sea-chariot the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to to Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!” sea!” suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards towards helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading. heading. sir,” said the frightened steersman. steersman. liest!” smiting him with his clenched fist. “Heading East at this this in the morning, and the sun astern?” astern?” this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then then by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very very palpableness must have been the cause. cause. his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse glimpse the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost almost to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two two pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West. West. ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew, the the man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, “I have it! It has happened happened Mr. Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’s compasses—that’s Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.” it.” but never before has it happened to me, sir,” said the pale mate, mate, gloomily. it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than than case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as as in the mariner’s needle, is, as all know, essentially one one the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much much at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning lightning actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars spars rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more more all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before before steel was of no more use than an old wife’s knitting needle. needle. in either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the the virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be be the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; ship; were the lowermost one inserted into the kelson. kelson. standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed transpointed the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took took precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were were inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship’s course to be be accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod Pequod her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair fair had only been juggling her. her. whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said said but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and and in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his his unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some some them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear fear Fate. But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost almost unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain certain shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s. Ahab’s. a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But But to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper copper of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck. deck. poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked wrecked and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But But is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without without pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles. needles. Quick!” perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about about do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to to the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a a so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old old well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily clumsily was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious superstitious without some shudderings and evil portents. portents. said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him him things he had demanded, “my men, the thunder turned old Ahab’s Ahab’s but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, own, will point as true as any.” any.” glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as as was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic magic follow. But Starbuck looked away. away. a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the the and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade bade hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the the after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he he the blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly strongly that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. before. going through some small strange motions with it—whether it—whether to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to to the awe of the crew, is uncertain—he called for linen thread; thread; moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, there, horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of of compass-cards. At first, the steel went round and round, quivering quivering vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its place, when when who had been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly frankly from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, it, ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level level The sun is East, and that compass swears it!” it!” after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could could such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk slunk away. his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his his pride. pride. 125. The Log and Line. Line. now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log log line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance reliance other means of determining the vessel’s place, some merchantmen, merchantmen, many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave heave log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form’s sake sake anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the the steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of of every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden wooden and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the the of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and and had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that that so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he he to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet magnet and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his his oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing sailing astern the billows rolled in riots. riots. there! Heave the log!” log!” seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. Manxman. the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.” heave.” went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where the the with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into into creamy, sidelong-rushing sea. sea. Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting projecting of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so so with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to to him. stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty forty to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old old who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to to speak. I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have have it.” it.” hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee? thee? seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.” it.” hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these grey grey of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with a a who’ll ne’er confess.” confess.” that? There now’s a patched professor in Queen Nature’s Nature’s College; but methinks he’s too subservient. Where wert wert born?” born?” the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.” sir.” Thou’st hit the world by that.” that.” know not, sir, but I was born there.” there.” the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it’s good. Here’s a man man Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man; Man; is sucked in—by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall wall all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So.” So.” log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long long line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In In jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing towing of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely. strangely. hard!” hard!” the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the the log was gone. gone. crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad mad parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian; Tahitian; up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and and thou the line. See to it.” it.” he goes now; to him nothing’s happened; but to me, the skewer skewer loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in, in, These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and and slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?” Pip?” whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip’s missing. missing. see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman. It drags drags I guess he’s holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul haul no cowards here. Ho! there’s his arm just breaking water. A hatchet! hatchet! hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir, sir, here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.” again.” thou crazy loon,” cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm. arm. from the quarter-deck!” quarter-deck!” greater idiot ever scolds the lesser,” muttered Ahab, advancing. advancing. off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy? boy? there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!” lo!” who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of of eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to to through! Who art thou, boy?” boy?” sir; ship’s-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! One One pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high—looks high—looks known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip the the coward?” can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! heavens! down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned abandoned ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s Pip’s henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; boy; art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s let’s down.” this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’s Ahab’s and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing thing this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a a something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth Perth come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the the for I will not let this go.” go.” boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse worse than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in in all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods gods of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not not he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come! Come! feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an an Emperor’s!” go two daft ones now,” muttered the old Manxman. “One daft with with the other daft with weakness. But here’s the end of the the line—all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a a line altogether. I’ll see Mr. Stubb about it.” it.” 126. The Life-Buoy. Life-Buoy. now south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress progress determined by Ahab’s level log and line; the Pequod held on her her towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such such waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways sideways by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all all seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and and scene. scene. last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the the fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before before dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch—then watch—then by Flask—was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and and half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod’s Herod’s Innocents—that one and all, they started from their reveries, reveries, for the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all all listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild wild remained within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the the said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers harpooneers unappalled. Yet the grey Manxman—the oldest mariner of of that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the the of newly drowned men in the sea. sea. in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when he he to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not not with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus thus the wonder. wonder. rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great great of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or or dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and and company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of of But this only the more affected some of them, because most most cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not not from their peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the the look of their round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen seen uprising from the water alongside. In the sea, under certain certain seals have more than once been mistaken for men. men. the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible plausible in the fate of one of their number that morning. At At this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; fore; whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for (for sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus thus the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had had been long at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and a a looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and and down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the the sea. life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern, where it it hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it, it, the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it it filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and and studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to to him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one. one. thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out out the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man man swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the the Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at at as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of of in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. presaged. declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they they heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay. nay. lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see see it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in in feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the the all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly directly with its final end, whatever that might prove to be; be; they were going to leave the ship’s stern unprovided with a a when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a a concerning his coffin. coffin. life-buoy of a coffin!” cried Starbuck, starting. starting. queer, that, I should say,” said Stubb. Stubb. will make a good enough one,” said Flask, “the carpenter here can can it easily.” easily.” it up; there’s nothing else for it,” said Starbuck, after a a pause. “Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—the coffin, coffin, mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it.” it.” shall I nail down the lid, sir?” moving his hand as with a hammer. hammer. “Aye.” shall I caulk the seams, sir?” moving his hand as with a a caulking-iron. “Aye.” shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?” moving his hand hand with a pitch-pot. pitch-pot. what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and and more.—Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.” me.” goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he he Now I don’t like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he he it like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he he put his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with with coffin? And now I’m ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It’s like like an old coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I I like this cobbling sort of business—I don’t like it at all; it’s it’s it’s not my place. Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; we we their betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, virgin, mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at at beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at at conclusion; not a cobbler’s job, that’s at an end in the middle, middle, at the beginning at the end. It’s the old woman’s tricks to be be cobbling jobs. Lord! what an affection all old women have for for I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away with a a young tinker once. And that’s the reason I never would work work lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in the the they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to run run with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps. Let Let see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over the same with with batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring over over ship’s stern. Were ever such things done before with a coffin? Some Some old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere ere would do the job. But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I I budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yard grave-yard But never mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and and as well as coffins and hearses. We work by the month, or or the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore wherefore our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash it it we can. Hem! I’ll do the job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s me—let’s many in the ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any Any I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three three long hanging all round to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down, down, be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight sight seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron, caulking-iron, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.” it.” 127. The Deck. Deck. coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between the vice-bench and the the hatchway; the Carpenter caulking its seams; the string of twisted twisted slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom of of frock.—Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip Pip him._ him._ lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand hand with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of a a What’s here?” here?” sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the the hatchway!” ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault.” vault.” The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does.” does.” not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy thy shop?” believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?” sir?” enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?” undertaker?” sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but but set me now to turning it into something else.” else.” tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling, intermeddling, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the the day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those those coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a a jack-of-all-trades.” I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do.” do.” gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a a The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the the for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in in Dost thou never?” never?” sir? Do I sing? Oh, I’m indifferent enough, sir, for that; but but reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there there none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark Hark it.” it.” and that’s because the lid there’s a sounding-board; and what in in things makes the sounding-board is this—there’s naught beneath. And And a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter. Carpenter. thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against against churchyard gate, going in? in? sir, I’ve——” I’ve——” What’s that?” that?” faith, sir, it’s only a sort of exclamation-like—that’s all, all, sir.” um; go on.” on.” was about to say, sir, that——” that——” thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself? thyself? at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight.” sight.” goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot hot I’ve heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the the is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some some of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He’s always always the Line—fiery hot, I tell ye! He’s looking this way—come, oakum; oakum; Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I’m the the of musical glasses—tap, tap!” tap!” to himself_.) himself_.) a sight! There’s a sound! The greyheaded woodpecker tapping tapping hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that that rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag, wag, fellow. Rat-tat! So man’s seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all all What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here Here the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the the sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. A A of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some some sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver! immortality-preserver! think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth, earth, its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain uncertain to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed accursed I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again. again. then, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous wondrous from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds worlds empty into thee!” thee!” 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel. Rachel. day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down down the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the time time Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the the windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all all together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from from smitten hull. hull. news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman. But ere her her who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he he hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard. heard. seen the White Whale?” Whale?” yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?” adrift?” his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question; question; would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger stranger himself, having stopped his vessel’s way, was seen descending descending side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the the main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was was by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation salutation exchanged. exchanged. was he?—not killed!—not killed!” cried Ahab, closely advancing. advancing. was it?” it?” seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, previous, three of the stranger’s boats were engaged with a shoal of of which had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and and they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head head Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to to whereupon, the fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had been been lowered in chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this this boat—the swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded in in least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell tell about it. In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; boat; then a swift gleam of bubbling white water; and after that nothing nothing whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must have have run away with his pursuers, as often happens. There was was apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals signals placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced to pick up her her far to windward boats—ere going in quest of the fourth one in the the opposite direction—the ship had not only been necessitated to to that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to to her distance from it. But the rest of her crew being at last last aboard, she crowded all sail—stunsail on stunsail—after the the boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every every man aloft on the look-out. But though when she had thus sailed a a distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when when seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all all her; and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again again and lowered her boats; and though she had thus continued doing doing daylight; yet not the least glimpse of the missing keel had been been seen. story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his his in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his his in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles miles on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were. were. will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some one one that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his his so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two two whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height height the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in in very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have been been the—” boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, I I exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had had icily received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let me me your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if it—if be no other way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you that—you oh, you must, and you _shall_ do this thing.” thing.” son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back the the and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.” boy.” drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the old Manx Manx standing behind them; “I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.” spirits.” as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel’s Rachel’s more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the the sons among the number of the missing boat’s crew; but among among number of the other boat’s crews, at the same time, but on the the hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the the there had been still another son; as that for a time, the the father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; perplexity; was only solved for him by his chief mate’s instinctively instinctively the ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies, emergencies, is, when placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to to up the majority first. But the captain, for some unknown unknown reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and not not forced to it by Ahab’s iciness did he allude to his one yet yet boy; a little lad, but twelve years old, whose father with the the but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer’s paternal love, had had early sought to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a a almost immemorially the destiny of all his race. Nor does it it occur, that Nantucket captains will send a son of such such age away from them, for a protracted three or four years’ voyage voyage some other ship than their own; so that their first knowledge of a a career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a a natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and and concern. now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab; Ahab; Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without without least quivering of his own. own. will not go,” said the stranger, “till you say _aye_ to me. Do to me me you would have me do to you in the like case. For _you_ too have a a Captain Ahab—though but a child, and nestling safely at home now—a now—a of your old age too—Yes, yes, you relent; I see it—run, run, men, men, and stand by to square in the yards.” yards.” cried Ahab—“touch not a rope-yarn”; then in a voice that that moulded every word—“Captain Gardiner, I will not do it. it. now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I I myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle binnacle and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all all then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before.” before.” turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin, cabin, the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter utter of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment, enchantment, silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his his and returned to his ship. ship. the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel vessel in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot, spot, small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung swung starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat beat a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the the her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three three cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs. boughs. by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly plainly that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without without She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were were not. 129. The Cabin. Cabin. moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by the hand to follow._) follow._) lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is is when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee thee him. There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my my Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most most health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, thee, if thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own own chair; another screw to it, thou must be.” be.” no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for for one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain remain part of ye.” ye.” spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fadeless of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-like like-cures-like to him too; he grows so sane again.” again.” tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose whose bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin. skin. I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with with ye.” thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab’s purpose keels up in him. him. tell thee no; it cannot be.” be.” good master, master, master! master! so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad. mad. and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still still that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!—Met! True art art lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless bless and if it come to that,—God for ever save thee, let what will will befall.” goes; Pip steps one step forward._) forward._) he this instant stood; I stand in his air,—but I’m alone. Now Now even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing. Pip! Pip! Pip! dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip? He must be up here; let’s try the the What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there’s no opening opening It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me me screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I’ll seat me, against the the in the ship’s full middle, all her keel and her three masts masts me. Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours seventy-fours admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of of and lieutenants. Ha! what’s this? epaulets! epaulets! the the all come crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; ye; up, monsieurs! What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy’s host host white men with gold lace upon their coats!—Monsieurs, have ye seen seen Pip?—a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and and Jumped from a whale-boat once;—seen him? No! Well then, fill fill again, captains, and let’s drink shame upon all cowards! I name no no Shame upon them! Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all all above there, I hear ivory—Oh, master! master! I am am down-hearted when you walk over me. But here I’ll stay, though though stern strikes rocks; and they bulge through; and oysters come to to me.” me.” 130. The Hat. Hat. now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a a cruise, Ahab,—all other whaling waters swept—seemed to have have his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely there; there; that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude longitude his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel had had spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered encountered Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various ships ships concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which which white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against; against; it was that there lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, which which was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting unsetting star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months’ night night its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now now gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It It above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings, misgivings, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a a spear or leaf. leaf. this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, natural, Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more more to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed seemed to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped clamped of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the the ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on them. them. did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when when thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that that as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glance glance his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it. it. an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah Fedallah such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious dubious him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal mortal or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen unseen body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by by even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go go He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan wan wondrous eyes did plainly say—We two watchmen never rest. rest. at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the the unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, pivot-hole, exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,—the limits,—the and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the the living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; step; hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he he however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung swung his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never never unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at at or whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, matter, he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and and unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved stone-carved and hat. The clothes that the night had wet, the next day’s day’s dried upon him; and so, day after day, and night after night; night; went no more beneath the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin cabin thing he sent for. for. ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,—breakfast and and supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly darkly all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still still idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But But his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the the mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these these never seemed to speak—one man to the other—unless at long intervals intervals passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent potent seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck awe-struck they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak speak word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the the verbal interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a a hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his his the Parsee by the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each each as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the the his abandoned substance. substance. yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly, hourly, every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab subordinates,—Ahab an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both both yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean lean siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and and was solid Ahab. Ahab. the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard heard aft,—“Man the mast-heads!”—and all through the day, till after after and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking striking the helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!” sharp!” when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the the Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac monomaniac man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly nearly except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether whether and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But But these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from from expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them. them. will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said. “Aye! Ahab Ahab have the doubloon!” and with his own hands he rigged a nest of of bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved sheaved to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the the rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin pin the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with with end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round round his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long long Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then then his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,—“Take the the sir—I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.” Then arranging his his in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his his Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; and and stood near it. And thus, with one hand clinging round the the mast, Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles,—ahead, miles,—ahead, this side, and that,—within the wide expanded circle commanded commanded so great a height. height. in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in in rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is is up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these these its fastened end on deck is always given in strict strict to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such such wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations relations cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at at deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few few cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural natural if, unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor sailor by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all all to the sea. So Ahab’s proceedings in this matter were not not the only strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, Starbuck, the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with with in the slightest degree approaching to decision—one of those those whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt doubt was strange, that this was the very man he should select select his watchman; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise otherwise person’s hands. hands. the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten ten one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly fly close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these these one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his his in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a a feet straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and and eddying again round his head. head. with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed seemed to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked marked much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least least eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every every sight. hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who who posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though though lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing dividing them. already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the long long bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with with prize. prize. eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace replace and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be be of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen omen good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on on on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; disappeared; from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was was discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea. sea. 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight. Delight. intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the the still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably miserably the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were were upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some some cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine nine serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats. boats. the stranger’s shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and and few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you you saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled, peeled, and bleaching skeleton of a horse. horse. seen the White Whale?” Whale?” replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with with trumpet he pointed to the wreck. wreck. killed him?” him?” harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,” answered the the sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose whose sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together. together. forged!” and snatching Perth’s levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab Ahab it out, exclaiming—“Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold hold death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these these and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the the where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!” life!” God keep thee, old man—see’st thou that”—pointing to the the bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only only but were dead ere night. Only _that_ one I bury; the rest rest buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb.” Then turning turning his crew—“Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and and the body; so, then—Oh! God”—advancing towards the hammock with with hands—“may the resurrection and the life——” life——” forward! Up helm!” cried Ahab like lightning to his men. men. the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the the of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not not quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have have her hull with their ghostly baptism. baptism. Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy life-buoy at the Pequod’s stern came into conspicuous relief. relief. yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her wake. wake. vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your your to show us your coffin!” coffin!” 132. The Symphony. Symphony. was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were were separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was was pure and soft, with a woman’s look, and the robust and and sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson’s Samson’s in his sleep. sleep. and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small, small, birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air; air; to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed rushed leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong, strong, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea. sea. though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and and without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were, were, distinguished them. them. like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle gentle to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the the line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen seen at the equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving loving with which the poor bride gave her bosom away. away. up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm firm unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the the of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the the lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’s girl’s of heaven. heaven. immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged winged that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how how were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen seen Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around around old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on on marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain. brain. crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side side watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the the and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the the aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a a the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that that sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, world, long cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn stubborn and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that that wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save save to bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into into sea; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee wee drop. saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side; side; he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing sobbing stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to to him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood stood there. turned. turned. “Starbuck!” “Sir.” Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such such day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first whale—a whale—a of eighteen! Forty—forty—forty years ago!—ago! Forty Forty of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and and forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab Ahab the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors horrors the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not not three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the the of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a a exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any any from the green country without—oh, weariness! heaviness! heaviness! slavery of solitary command!—when I think of all this; this; half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before—and how for forty forty I have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishment nourishment my soil!—when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily daily and broken the world’s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away, crusts—away, oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and and for Cape Horn the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage marriage wife?—rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I I that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the the the frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with with for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly foamingly his prey—more a demon than a man!—aye, aye! what a forty years’ years’ fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? chase? weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? lance? the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not not that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been been from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, me, I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out some some But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel feel faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering staggering the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack my my my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey grey have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus thus old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a a eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to to upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is is magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; no; on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives gives to Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with with far away home I see in that eye!” eye!” my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! all! should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us us these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are are and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow play-fellow even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, loving, paternal old age! Away! let us away!—this instant let me alter alter course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl bowl our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some some mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket.” Nantucket.” have, they have. I have seen them—some summer days in the the About this time—yes, it is his noon nap now—the boy boy wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of of old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back back dance him again.” again.” my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every every should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of of father’s sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for for Come, my Captain, study out the course, and let us away! away! see! the boy’s face from the window! the boy’s hand on the hill!” hill!” Ahab’s glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and and his last, cindered apple to the soil. soil. is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what what hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor emperor me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep keep and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly recklessly me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not not much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this this But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy errand-boy heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible invisible how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain brain thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does does living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round round this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all all time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon yon who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where Where murderers go, man! Who’s to doom, when the judge himself is dragged dragged the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and and air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have have making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and and mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we we we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust rust greenness; as last year’s scythes flung down, and left in the the swaths—Starbuck!” swaths—Starbuck!” blanched to a corpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away. away. crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at at reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly motionlessly over the same rail. rail. 133. The Chase—First Day. Day. night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont at at forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went went his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing snuffing the sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some some isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that that odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living living whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner mariner when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, dog-vane, then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as as Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightly slightly and the sail to be shortened. shortened. acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated vindicated daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and and ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery watery bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift swift at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream. stream. the mast-heads! Call all hands!” hands!” with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle forecastle Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they they to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear appear their clothes in their hands. hands. d’ye see?” cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky. sky. nothing sir!” was the sound hailing down in reply. reply. sails!—stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!” sides!” sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for for him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were were him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and and peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the the and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the the “There she blows!—there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is is Dick!” Dick!” by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three three the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous famous they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final final some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just just him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian’s Indian’s was almost on a level with Ahab’s heel. From this height the whale whale now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing revealing high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into into air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they they so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Oceans. did none of ye see it before?” cried Ahab, hailing the perched men men around him. him. saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I I out,” said Tashtego. Tashtego. the same instant; not the same—no, the doubloon is mine, Fate Fate the doubloon for me. _I_ only; none of ye could have raised raised White Whale first. There she blows!—there she blows!—there she she There again!—there again!” he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, lingering, tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale’s whale’s jets. “He’s going to sound! In stunsails! Down Down Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay stay board, and keep the ship. Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; So; man, steady! There go flukes! No, no; only black water! All All the boats there? Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; Starbuck; lower,—quick, quicker!” and he slid through the air to the deck. deck. is heading straight to leeward, sir,” cried Stubb, “right away from from cannot have seen the ship yet.” yet.” dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!—brace up! up! her!—shiver her!—So; well that! Boats, boats!” boats!” all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sails boat-sails the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to to and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up up sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth. mouth. noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; sea; only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew grew more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a a so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter hunter so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling dazzling was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated isolated and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, fleecy, foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly slightly head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged Turkish-rugged went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky milky a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and and the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving moving of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and and by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes of of of gay fowl softly feathering the sea, alternate with their their flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from the painted hull hull an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projected projected the white whale’s back; and at intervals one of the cloud of of fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming like a canopy over over fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, the long tail tail streaming like pennons. pennons. gentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested invested gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with with Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering leering sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness, fleetness, straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that that majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so so swam. swam. each soft side—coincident with the parted swell, that but once once him, then flowed so wide away—on each bright side, the whale whale off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who who transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured ventured assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of of Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all all for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way way may’st have bejuggled and destroyed before. before. thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among among whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby Moby moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his his trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw. jaw. soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an an his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia’s Virginia’s Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, air, grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight. sight. halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls sea-fowls lingered over the agitated pool that he left. left. oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, adrift, three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick’s reappearance. reappearance. hour,” said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat’s stern; and he gazed gazed the whale’s place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing wooing to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed seemed round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze breeze freshened; the sea began to swell. swell. birds!—the birds!” cried Tashtego. Tashtego. long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were now now flying towards Ahab’s boat; and when within a few yards began began over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous, joyous, cries. Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab could could no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down down its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a a weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it it till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long long rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the the bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw; jaw; vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. sea. glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble marble and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled whirled craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon upon to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and and Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and and by to stern. stern. by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, axis, bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yet yet water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that that intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted transplanted as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head head beneath the boat. boat. and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for for instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of a a shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his his so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into into open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish bluish of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab’s Ahab’s and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale Whale shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With With eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the the crew were tumbling over each other’s heads to gain the the stern. stern. now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the the dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his his being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from from bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and while while other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis crisis to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with with tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and and in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized seized long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from from gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the the gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an an shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in in and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the the floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the the at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold hold to the oars to lash them across. across. that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first first perceive the whale’s intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a a that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand had had one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only only further into the whale’s mouth, and tilting over sideways as as slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him him of it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the the sea. withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little little vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the the and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body; body; that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feet feet of the water—the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves, waves, broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray spray higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel Channel only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to to its summit with their scud. scud. motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its its (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary preliminary poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called called previously described. By this motion the whale must best best most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him. him. soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round round round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful vengeful as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly deadly The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the the of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in the the of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the the insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though he he still keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; that; Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least least shock might burst. From the boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallah Fedallah and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other other end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them to to to themselves. For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale’s Whale’s and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, made, he seemed horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other other unharmed, still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into into eddy to strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant instant of the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that that could they themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, then, remained on the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had had become the old man’s head. head. from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship’s ship’s heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene; scene; was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!—“Sail on on that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and and him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing chancing rise on a towering crest, he shouted,—“Sail on the whale!—Drive him him off!” Pequod’s prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, circle, effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly sullenly off, the boats flew to the rescue. rescue. into Stubb’s boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white white caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab’s bodily bodily did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body’s doom: for a a lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb’s boat, like one trodden trodden foot of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from from as desolate sounds from out ravines. ravines. this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more more it. In an instant’s compass, great hearts sometimes condense condense one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused diffused feebler men’s whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary summary each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their life-time life-time a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous instantaneous for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures natures the entire circumferences of inferior souls. souls. harpoon,” said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on on bended arm—“is it safe?” safe?” sir, for it was not darted; this is it,” said Stubb, showing it. it. it before me;—any missing men?” men?” two, three, four, five;—there were five oars, sir, and here are are men.” men.” good.—Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there! there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!—Hands off from me! me! eternal sap runs up in Ahab’s bones again! Set the sail; out oars; oars; helm!” helm!” is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked picked by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is is continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. now. the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the the for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with with velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these these pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely indefinitely if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long long period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing thing tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, itself, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate intermediate of overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, her, were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wrecked wrecked having been previously secured by her—and then hoisting everything everything her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways sideways it with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an an the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At At well known, methodic intervals, the whale’s glittering spout was was announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be be as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing pacing deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second of the the hour expired, his voice was heard.—“Whose is the doubloon now? now? see him?” and if the reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded commanded to lift him to his perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now now and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing the planks. planks. he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men men or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a a greater breadth—thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, hat, every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped dropped the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered shattered At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded over-clouded fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old old face there now stole some such added gloom as this. this. saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to to his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in in Captain’s mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed—“The exclaimed—“The the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!” ha!” soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did did not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could could thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a a wreck.” sir,” said Starbuck drawing near, “’tis a solemn sight; an omen, omen, an ill one.” one.” omen?—the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to to they will honorably speak outright; not shake their heads, and and an old wives’ darkling hint.—Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles poles one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye ye are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the the earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold—I shiver!—How shiver!—How Aloft there! D’ye see him? Sing out for every spout, though he he ten times a second!” second!” day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling. rustling. it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset. unset. see the spout now, sir;—too dark”—cried a voice from the air. air. heading when last seen?” seen?” before, sir,—straight to leeward.” leeward.” he will travel slower now ’tis night. Down royals and and stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before before he’s making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm Helm keep her full before the wind!—Aloft! come down!—Mr. Stubb, send send fresh hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till till advancing towards the doubloon in the main-mast—“Men, main-mast—“Men, gold is mine, for I earned it; but I shall let it abide here till till White Whale is dead; and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, him, the day he shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if on on day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall be be among all of ye! Away now!—the deck is thine, sir!” sir!” so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and and his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals intervals himself to see how the night wore on. on. 134. The Chase—Second Day. Day. day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh. afresh. see him?” cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light light spread. spread. nothing, sir.” sir.” up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought thought top-gallant sails!—aye, they should have been kept on her all all But no matter—’tis but resting for the rush.” rush.” be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular particular continued through day into night, and through night into day, is is thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is is wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible invincible acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket Nantucket that from the simple observation of a whale when last last they will, under certain given circumstances, pretty pretty foretell both the direction in which he will continue to to for a time, while out of sight, as well as his probable rate of of during that period. And, in these cases, somewhat as a a when about losing sight of a coast, whose general trending he he knows, and which he desires shortly to return to again, but at at further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass, and takes takes precise bearing of the cape at present visible, in order the more more to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be be so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for for being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours of of then, when night obscures the fish, the creature’s future future through the darkness is almost as established to the sagacious sagacious of the hunter, as the pilot’s coast is to him. So that to this this wondrous skill, the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in in a wake, is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the the land. And as the mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway railway so familiarly known in its every pace, that, with watches in their their men time his rate as doctors that of a baby’s pulse; and lightly lightly of it, the up train or the down train will reach such or such a a at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there are occasions occasions these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep, deep, to the observed humor of his speed; and say to themselves, so so hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have have reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude. But to to this acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and the the must be the whaleman’s allies; for of what present avail to the the or windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he is is ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port? Inferable Inferable these statements, are many collateral subtile matters touching the the of whales. whales. ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a a missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level level field. salt and hemp!” cried Stubb, “but this swift motion of the deck deck up one’s legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two two fellows!—Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise, spine-wise, the sea,—for by live-oaks! my spine’s a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait gait leaves no dust behind!” behind!” she blows—she blows!—she blows!—right ahead!” was now the the cry. cry. aye!” cried Stubb, “I knew it—ye can’t escape—blow on and split split spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your your your lungs!—Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller miller his watergate upon the stream!” stream!” Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies frenzies the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine wine anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might might felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the the awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed, routed, timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand hand Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of the the day; the rack of the past night’s suspense; the fixed, fixed, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging plunging its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled bowled The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the the on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of of unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race. race. were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all; all; it was put together of all contrasting things—oak, and maple, maple, pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all these ran into each each in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced balanced directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities individualities the crew, this man’s valor, that man’s fear; guilt and guiltiness, guiltiness, varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that that goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to. to. rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were were tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one one some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others, others, their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking rocking all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for for fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to to out the thing that might destroy them! them! sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?” cried Ahab, when, after after lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard. heard. me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd odd that way, and then disappears.” disappears.” was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some some thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for for had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its its on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the the vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant triumphant of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as—much nearer to the ship ship the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead—Moby Dick Dick burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not not the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the the Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous wondrous of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the the depths, the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the the element of air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows shows place to the distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, moments, torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, cases, breaching is his act of defiance. defiance. she breaches! there she breaches!” was the cry, as in his his bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to to So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved relieved the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, raised, the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and and there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling sparkling to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale. vale. breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!” cried Ahab, “thy hour hour thy harpoon are at hand!—Down! down all of ye, but one man at the the The boats!—stand by!” by!” of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like like stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and and while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped dropped his perch. perch. away,” he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one, one, the afternoon previous. “Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine—keep thine—keep from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!” all!” if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first first himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the the crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told told he would take the whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight up up his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, limit, a course excludes the coming onset from the whale’s sidelong sidelong But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three three were plain as the ship’s three masts to his eye; the White Whale Whale himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, were, among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered offered battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him him every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank plank which those boats were made. But skilfully manœuvred, incessantly incessantly like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while while him; though, at times, but by a plank’s breadth; while all the the Ahab’s unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds. shreds. at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed crossed recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three three now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves, themselves, the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now now a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more more charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more more and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again—hoping again—hoping way to disencumber it of some snarls—when lo!—a sight more savage savage the embattled teeth of sharks! sharks! and twisted—corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons harpoons lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing flashing dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab’s boat. Only one one could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached reached then, without—the rays of steel; dragged in the line line passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice sundering sundering rope near the chocks—dropped the intercepted fagot of steel into into sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White Whale made a a rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines; by so so irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask Flask his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a a beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in a a maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of of wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly swiftly bowl of punch. punch. the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after after revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while while little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching twitching legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was was singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old old line—now parting—admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to to whom he could;—in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand thousand perils,—Ahab’s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards towards by invisible wires,—as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly perpendicularly the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its its and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell fell downwards—and Ahab and his men struggled out from under under like seals from a sea-side cave. cave. first uprising momentum of the whale—modifying its direction as he he the surface—involuntarily launched him along it, to a little little from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his his to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from from to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip or or of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and and sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work work that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the the and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his his way at a traveller’s methodic pace. pace. before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again again bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the the mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, at, safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, wrists, ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; lances; intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these these there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen befallen one. As with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly grimly to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy easy nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day’s mishap. mishap. when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as as of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of of who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory ivory had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter. splinter. aye, Starbuck, ’tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he he and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.” has.” ferrule has not stood, sir,” said the carpenter, now coming up; “I “I good work into that leg.” leg.” no bones broken, sir, I hope,” said Stubb with true concern. concern. and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!—d’ye see it.—But even with a a bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of of one jot more me, than this dead one that’s lost. Nor white whale, whale, man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and and being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape scrape roof?—Aloft there! which way?” way?” to leeward, sir.” sir.” helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of of spare boats and rig them—Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat’s boat’s crews.” me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir.” sir.” oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the the captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!” mate!” “Sir?” body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane—there, that that lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet. yet. heaven it cannot be!—missing?—quick! call them all.” all.” old man’s hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the the was not there. there. Parsee!” cried Stubb—“he must have been caught in——” in——” black vomit wrench thee!—run all of ye above, alow, cabin, cabin, him—not gone—not gone!” gone!” quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was was to be found. found. sir,” said Stubb—“caught among the tangles of your line—I thought thought saw him dragging under.” under.” line! _my_ line? Gone?—gone? What means that little word?—What word?—What rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry. belfry. harpoon, too!—toss over the litter there,—d’ye see it?—the forged forged men, the white whale’s—no, no, no,—blistered fool! this hand did did it!—’tis in the fish!—Aloft there! Keep him nailed—Quick!—all nailed—Quick!—all to the rigging of the boats—collect the oars—harpooneers! the the the irons!—hoist the royals higher—a pull on all the the there! steady, steady for your life! I’ll ten times girdle girdle unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I’ll slay slay yet!” yet!” God! but for one single instant show thyself,” cried Starbuck; Starbuck; never wilt thou capture him, old man—In Jesus’ name no more of of that’s worse than devil’s madness. Two days chased; twice stove stove splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil evil gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:—what more more thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he he the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the the Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impiety oh,—Impiety blasphemy to hunt him more!” more!” of late I’ve felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that that we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another’s eyes. But in this this of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this this lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This This act’s immutably decreed. ’Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion billion before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I act act orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand round round men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered shivered propped up on a lonely foot. ’Tis Ahab—his body’s part; but but soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel feel half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a a and I may look so. But ere I break, ye’ll hear me crack; and till till hear _that_, know that Ahab’s hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe Believe men, in the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! encore! ere they drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; surface; rise again, to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick—two days he’s he’s will be the third. Aye, men, he’ll rise once more,—but more,—but to spout his last! D’ye feel brave men, brave?” brave?” fearless fire,” cried Stubb. Stubb. as mechanical,” muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he he on: “The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same same Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek seek drive out of others’ hearts what’s clinched so fast in mine!—The mine!—The Parsee!—gone, gone? and he was to go before:—but still was was be seen again ere I could perish—How’s that?—There’s a riddle now now baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of of a hawk’s beak it pecks my brain. _I’ll_, _I’ll_ solve it, it, though!” dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward. leeward. once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as on on previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the the was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by by in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and and their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken broken of Ahab’s wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while while as on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his his his hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its its sat due eastward for the earliest sun. sun. 135. The Chase.—Third Day. Day. morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the the night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the the look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar. spar. see him?” cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight. sight. his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that’s all. Helm Helm steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day day were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the the and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a a day could not dawn upon that world. Here’s food for thought, had had time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; feels; tingling enough for mortal man! to think’s audacity. God only only that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness coolness a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too too for that. And yet, I’ve sometimes thought my brain was very very calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the the turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing growing this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s like like sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy earthy of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow blow they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the the ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this this prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and and them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. fleeces. upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such a a miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink slink And yet, ’tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever ever it? In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Run Run at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind that that stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow. blow. Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than _that_. Would now the the but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and and mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as as not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, a a malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that that something all glorious and gracious in the wind. These warm warm Winds, at least, that in the clear heavens blow straight on, in in and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from their mark, mark, the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest mightiest of the land swift and swerve about, uncertain where to go go last. And by the eternal Poles! these same Trades that so directly directly my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them—something so so and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! it! there! What d’ye see?” see?” sir.” sir.” and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun! sun! aye, it must be so. I’ve oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye, Aye, chasing _me_ now; not I, _him_—that’s bad; I might have known it, it, Fool! the lines—the harpoons he’s towing. Aye, aye, I have run him him last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look look Man the braces!” braces!” as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod’s Pequod’s so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced braced sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own own wake. wake. the wind he now steers for the open jaw,” murmured Starbuck to to as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. “God “God us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside inside my flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!” him!” by to sway me up!” cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket. basket. should meet him soon.” soon.” aye, sir,” and straightway Starbuck did Ahab’s bidding, and once once Ahab swung on high. high. whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held held breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the the bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the the mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had had it. it. to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck deck sharper up; crowd her into the wind’s eye. He’s too far far to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that that with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But But me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there’s there’s for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and and changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of of The same!—the same!—the same to Noah as to me. There’s a a shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead lead something else than common land, more palmy than the the Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then; then; better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old old What’s this?—green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks. cracks. such green weather stains on Ahab’s head! There’s the difference now now man’s old age and matter’s. But aye, old mast, we both grow old old sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus a a that’s all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live live every way. I can’t compare with it; and I’ve known some ships ships of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital vital of vital fathers. What’s that he said? he should still go before before my pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at at bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and and night I’ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, Aye, like many more thou told’st direful truth as touching thyself, O O but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head—keep mast-head—keep good eye upon the whale, the while I’m gone. We’ll talk to-morrow, to-morrow, to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and and tail.” gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered lowered the cloven blue air to the deck. deck. due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop’s shallop’s Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the the held one of the tackle-ropes on deck—and bade him pause. pause. “Starbuck!” “Sir?” the third time my soul’s ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck.” Starbuck.” sir, thou wilt have it so.” so.” ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing, missing, Starbuck!” sir: saddest truth.” truth.” men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of the the I feel now like a billow that’s all one crested comb, comb, I am old;—shake hands with me, man.” man.” hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck’s tears the glue. glue. my captain, my captain!—noble heart—go not—go not!—see, it’s a a man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!” then!” away!”—cried Ahab, tossing the mate’s arm from him. “Stand by by crew!” crew!” an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern. stern. sharks! the sharks!” cried a voice from the low cabin-window cabin-window “O master, my master, come back!” back!” Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the the leaped on. on. the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when when of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath beneath hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time time dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with with bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats whale-boats those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them them the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of of regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that that been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first first and whether it was that Ahab’s crew were all such such barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the the of the sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affect affect it was, they seemed to follow that one boat without without the others. others. of wrought steel!” murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and and with his eyes the receding boat—“canst thou yet ring boldly boldly that sight?—lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by by open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?—For day?—For three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be be the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the the and the end of that thing—be that end what it may. Oh! my God! God! is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet yet at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me, me, in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim. dim. girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to see see thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem seem but clouds sweep between—Is my journey’s end coming? My legs legs faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,—beats heart,—beats yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it off—move, move! speak speak there! See ye my boy’s hand on the hill?—Crazed;—aloft hill?—Crazed;—aloft thy keenest eye upon the boats:—mark well the whale!—Ho! whale!—Ho! off that hawk! see! he pecks—he tears the vane”—pointing vane”—pointing the red flag flying at the main-truck—“Ha! he soars away with with the old man now? see’st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder, Ahab!—shudder, shudder!” boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads—a mast-heads—a pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but but to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a a sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the the silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered hammered the opposing bow. bow. drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads heads them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and and hearse can be mine:—and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!” ha!” the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then then upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice, ice, rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a a hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with with ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise, lengthwise, obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, mist, hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping swamping into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for for instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of of leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the the trunk of the whale. whale. way!” cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to to attack; but maddened by yesterday’s fresh irons that corroded in in Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell fell heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad broad forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together; together; head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more more them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two two boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows, bows, leaving Ahab’s almost without a scar. scar. Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the the swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he he by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round round round to the fish’s back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in in during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of of lines around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his his raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old old Ahab. harpoon dropped from his hand. hand. befooled!”—drawing in a long lean breath—“Aye, Parsee! I see see again.—Aye, and thou goest before; and this, _this_ then is the the that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of of word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those those are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to me; me; not, Ahab is enough to die—Down, men! the first thing that but but to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are are other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.—Where’s the the gone down again?” again?” he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the the he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter encounter been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again again swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,—which thus thus had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the the her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his his velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight straight in the sea. sea. Ahab,” cried Starbuck, “not too late is it, even now, the third third to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that that seekest him!” him!” sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled impelled leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding sliding the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck’s face as he he over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and and him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, upwards, saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three three while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats boats had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in in them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he he he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying busying on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all all as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers hammers driving a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking marking the vane or flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to to who had just gained that perch, to descend again for another another and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast. mast. fagged by the three days’ running chase, and the resistance to to swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some some deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White White way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly rapidly him once more; though indeed the whale’s last start had not not so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves waves unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to to boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades blades jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at at every dip. dip. them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull Pull ’tis the better rest, the shark’s jaw than the yielding water.” water.” at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!” smaller!” will last long enough! pull on!—But who can tell”—he tell”—he these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on on pull on! Aye, all alive, now—we near him. The helm! take the the let me pass,”—and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward forward the bows of the still flying boat. boat. length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with with White Whale’s flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its its the whale sometimes will—and Ahab was fairly within the the mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale’s spout, curled curled his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when, when, body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the the he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the the whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked sucked a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his his flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so so canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated elevated of the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have have tossed into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen—who foreknew foreknew the precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for for effects—these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two two them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a a wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man man dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming. swimming. simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated, ungraduated, swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering weltering But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with with line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their their and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line line that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air! air! breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—’tis whole again; oars! oars! oars! in upon him!” him!” the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled wheeled to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution, evolution, sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing seeing it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it—it may be—a be—a and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing advancing smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam. foam. staggered; his hand smote his forehead. “I grow blind; hands! hands! out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is’t night?” night?” whale! The ship!” cried the cringing oarsmen. oarsmen. oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for for too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I I the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?” ship?” as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the the seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks planks through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat boat nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, crew, hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water. water. for that one beholding instant, Tashtego’s mast-head hammer hammer suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as as a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own own heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the the beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon soon he. he. whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of of now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a a fainting fit. Up helm, I say—ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is Is the end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? fidelities? Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up Up again! He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on on one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me me now!” not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now now Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning grinning Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb’s own own eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is is too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thee, grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins assassins as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would would ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! oh! grinning whale, but there’ll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye ye O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in his his A most mouldy and over salted death, though;—cherries! though;—cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!” die!” I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope hope poor mother’s drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will will come to her, for the voyage is up.” up.” the ship’s bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers, hammers, of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their their just as they had darted from their various employments; all all enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side side vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of of semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, Retribution, vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of of that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead forehead the ship’s starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell fell upon their faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the the aloft shook on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, breach, heard the waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume. flume. ship! The hearse!—the second hearse!” cried Ahab from the boat; boat; wood could only be American!” American!” beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its its but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far far the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab’s boat, where, for a a he lay quiescent. quiescent. turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy thy Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; keel; only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and and prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and and me? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest meanest captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel feel topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your your bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone foregone and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards thee I roll, roll, all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with with from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last last at thee. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool! pool! since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still still thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! _Thus_, I give up up spear!” spear!” harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting igniting the line ran through the grooves;—ran foul. Ahab stooped to to it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the the and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was was out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the the eye-splice in the rope’s final end flew out of the stark-empty stark-empty knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its its depths. an instant, the tranced boat’s crew stood still; then turned. “The “The Great God, where is the ship?” Soon they through dim, bewildering bewildering saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Fata only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by by or fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the the harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. sea. now, concentric circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its its and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, spinning, and inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried the the chip of the Pequod out of sight. sight. as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the the head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the the spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag, flag, calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying destroying they almost touched;—at that instant, a red arm and a hammer hammer backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing the the faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that that had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home home the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there; there; bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between between hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial etherial the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his his frozen there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic archangelic and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive captive folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like like would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of of along with her, and helmeted herself with it. it. small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen sullen surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the the shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago. ago. 
